---
title: Nov 13, 2010
---

A COURSE IN MIRACLES STUDY GROUP WITH RAJ   November 13th 2010     THIS IS
A ROUGH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY IS NOT IN ITS FINAL FORM AND WILL BE UPDATED

  Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

Before we go into the Book tonight, I want to discuss something that isn’t
discussed as often as it ought to be.  And it’s the meaning of the word,
“correction.”  It’s a word found many times in the Course.  Correction could,
in some ways, be called the goal of the Course.  It is to correct
misperceptions.  

And of course, the biggest and truly only misperception there is, is the
idea—the imaginary idea—that each of you are independent, autonomous,
self-starters who came from a sperm and a egg . . . a fluke of nature that
happens to have become a dominant force of nature, you might say, at least on
your planet.

Survival of the fittest, as we’ve discussed extensively is the underlying
engine of being.  And this is a misperception.  This misperception must be
corrected.

And that’s what all of this is about.

All of this time we’ve spent talking, considering, reading the Course, and here
we are talking about the two-step:  The place where you hesitate, you shut up
your mind, you abandon your confidences in what you believe and you reach
outside of “the box” of your mentality—your self-constructed mentality and you
say of God or the Holy Spirit or the “Powers that be,”—That which is the cause
of everything—“What is the truth here?”  And then you remain silent and you
listen.  And that silence, that space of time, if you will, is the holy
instant. 

Now, the holy instant is the place in which God’s laws prevail.  And I have
said this many times over the past few months.  And I’ve said it in the way
that I know is reassuring to everyone.  In other words, it is reassuring to
know that if you practice the holy instant, if you practice the two-step and go
into the Silence with genuine curiosity to know the truth beyond your present
sense of the truth of everything, that you indeed move into a place where God’s
laws prevail and nothing else does.   It’s reassuring to know that.

But here’s something that most everyone tends to overlook.  If there is a place
where God’s laws prevail, in other words, govern absolutely, then there are
laws, aren’t there?  There are principles, if I may put it that way.  This
means that there are structures according to which you must be.

There are not just guidelines . . . “Well, it would be helpful if you did this
. . . and it would be a good thing if you did that, . .” There are absolute
laws:  Thou cannot have sin, disease or death.  You cannot be an orphan
successfully.  You cannot ignore the truth and be comfortable.  You cannot make
up your own definitions and replace the Real ones with them and feel secure.

Now, put more positively:  The laws of God say obedience to truth—love of
truth—heals, transforms, causes the laws of the God to become visible to you as
an experience, not just an intellectual theory.

You must abide by the way things work if you would experience Heaven here and
now.

So, although many love the phrase from the Course that says, “You need do
nothing,” the fact is that what that means is, you must stop doing what doesn’t
work.  You must stop doing what amounts to nothing.  You must stop doing what
causes illusion—delusion—and binds you to a suffering sense of existence.  

That’s what the law of God says.  Those are what the laws of God say.  They
require something of you.

Now there are many who say that the Course is not about miracles as
demonstrations of the miraculous.  Well maybe it’s not.  But it is about
correction, isn’t it.   No one will deny that.  Okay.

So you plant a seed and an Amaryllis begins to come up and the leaves are
well-formed and the color is beautiful and the stalk gets longer.  And as it
gets longer, it suddenly seems to stop.  Some of the other leaves grow further,
but when the stalk comes out that has the flowers, it’s bent to the left and
doesn’t reach the height that it ought to have and it’s beauty is marred by its
growth being stunted . . . we’ll call it that.

Well, is everyone spiritually magnanimous and does everyone look at it and say,
“It’s still the loveliness of God and even though it’s not ultimate, I will
appreciate everything about it.  And I know that although the flower might not
be standing tall and proud and majestic, it’s still going to be quite enjoyable
and I’m going to bring my love and appreciation to it . . . as it is, of
course, stunted.”

And that can be considered miraculous thinking.  That can be considered you
fulfilling your function of acknowledging God in each and every thing and
glorifying God in each of every thing and not filling yourself with sadness or
a little bit of remorse because it’s not quite what it could be.

But I’m going to ask you:  Where is the correction?  What is correction?  Why
it’s a miracle.  It’s a sudden shift of perception, isn’t it?

But a sudden shift of perception that isn’t identified by correction is not
miraculous and it is not a miracle.

Now, what if this alteration in growth appears to be happening to a child—your
child, perhaps your grandchild, your niece or nephew?  Do you commit yourself
to helping them have the best life they can under the circumstances?  Do you
maybe, do the two-step and say, “Father, what is the truth here?”  And if you
experience an influx of clarity, an influx of the comprehension of the truth as
an experience within you, and it is so clear to you that, let us say, you
aren’t fooled by the appearance even though the appearance hasn’t changed, and
you feel grateful and perhaps you think that is miraculous and that is
a miracle—that that is all there is to a sudden shift of perception.

I’m telling you that it’s not.

There’s something called, “Follow-through.”  And that’s what I want to address
tonight because most everyone doesn’t really comprehend the miracles that
A Course In Miracles is about.

You tell me what on earth it could possibly mean for you to take steps which
constitute the Bridge to the Real World that we’re going to be talking about.
You tell me what on earth Meaning there can be to practicing the holy instant
and not seeing evidence of God’s laws prevailing?

If you’re not seeing the lengthening of limbs, if you’re not seeing the
symmetry of a plant restoring itself, you haven’t tapped A Course In Miracles!

And you know what?  You sort of glide along in a sense of hope and a sense of
confidence and general uplift, not a spectacular uplift, but a general uplift
that’s a little bit better than what everyone else is experiencing.  And you
think that’s all that it’s about.  You think that’s all you deserve.  You think
that’s all that you can have.  Because, of course, A Course In Miracles is
about something else:  It’s just about a head-trip—a shift of perception. 

Your misperception is always a misperception of the Kingdom of Heaven.  Your
misperception is always a misperception of Reality—God’s Reality—the Presence
of God illuminating Itself, manifesting Itself infinitely, gloriously,
flawlessly, indivisibly without conflict, polarity or anything unlike Itself.

If you’re not seeing it, there’s a need for correction.  The need for
correction practiced, and I’m going to say, accomplished, is going to be you
seeing the Kingdom of Heaven, seeing God’s Creation right here, right in front
of you—the hand at the end of your arm, the limb of your granddaughter or
grandson that’s shortened, you’re going to see correction of it.  Why?  Because
you’re going to see Reality, you’re going to see what God is Being right there,
flawlessly, eternally, unchangeably, beautifully.

Hey, if there isn’t a Real World to see, then there’s no need for a bridge to
a Real World, is there?

And so, here’s the point:  When you are observing things that call for
correction and you’re sort of giving a cursory blessing to it, or even
a blessing that is a little bit more diligent, with a little bit more conscious
intent, if you’re not sticking with it until you have experienced the shift of
perception that constitutes the miracle, you will not see the correction and
you’re still going to be asleep!  You’re still going to be dreaming.

“Well, you know, I’ve been studying the Course, . . you know.  We have problems
from time to time, in fact there’s a problem going on right now and I’m doing
my best to live the Course relative to it.  I really don’t know what to do
. . .”

Well, we’ve been talking about what to do.  What I’m bringing up tonight is,
that when you do the two-step and you don’t see the correction, then there’s
still a call for correction, isn’t there . . . a call of correction for what?
Your perception!  

And so it’s not time to put it down.  It’s not time to abandon it.  It’s not
time to say, “Well, that’s going on out there, and it’s part of God’s Creation
and I’ve done my best to bless it, but of course, you know there are
circumstances that are contributing to it and they complicate things.  And
I don’t have control over all of those things.  Hey, maybe the plant doesn’t
want to be healed.  Maybe it’s part of that child’s karma to have a shortened
limb . . .  maybe it was part of the lesson-plan for this lifetime.”
BULLSHIT!

You must be alert and you must not let yourself be sucked into lackadaisical,
irresponsible, lazy, slipshod patterns of behavior and think that you’re
practicing A Course In Miracles or getting what it means.

“Well, Raj, you say, ‘The only right use of will is not to use it.’  I love
that phrase, Raj . . . ‘The only right use of will is to choose not to use it
. . . to not practice self-will . . . to abandon willfulness.’” 

Oh, indeed, yes.  But I didn’t say sit down and sog like a lump of silly putty,
or bread-dough that just flattens out and becomes sluggish and useless.

No.  The only right use of will—meaning human will—is to choose not to use it.
When you choose not to use human will, you do find yourself moving into a place
of, for lack of better words, willingness . . . will-ing-ness . . . willing to
be present with, to cooperate with, to not assert yourself instead of something
else and to let yourself fit in with the something else.  And when that
expression of intense self-will is abandoned, something spontaneously
happens, like harmony is experienced and you don’t feel at odds with
everything.  And you begin to feel the meaning of everything and how you fit
into it.  And you find that in the absence of your willfulness, it becomes
very clear to you how to be . . . how to be, not how to sog . . . how to be—a
verb, a vital active verb:  to be.  To be what?  To be perfect . . . to be
perfectly appropriate.  And so that means you’re going to do something. 

You are going to do things.  You are going to be the movement of
appropriateness.  And so, you will act.  But the action will not come out of
self-will, it will not come out of the orphan mindset.  It will arise in you
because the Something that you have let yourself be part of—to blend with, to
fit in with—is the rest of you, which really means it’s all of God. 

And so, what God is Being becomes reflected in your actions.  Will is
expressed.  This must be understood.  You will not end up doing nothing.  You
will be the fullness of the expression of God in all appropriateness, at every
given moment.  Which means that everything you engage in will be ultimately
meaningful, ultimately valuable, divinely Real.  

And so, you know what?  Since this is what happens when you practice the holy
instant and go into the silence and un-separate yourself from your Source you
will come into the fullness of your Being.  And your actions will, in every
way, correct or allow for the correction to become visible to you.  Because
you’re not going to give up your attentiveness to the Father’s Perspective
until every last speck of illusion is gone, until every last thing calling for
correction is corrected . . . you know.  

It’s also said that everything is Love or a call for Love.  

Well, what is a call for Love?  

It’s a call for correction.  And the correction must be Love expressed
. . . Right?

So you don’t put down the Love until the correction is accomplished.  You
persist, in other words.  What does that mean?  You persist in control?  No,
you persist in preparing your mind to have the true perception.  You persist in
bring your attention to that place where God’s laws prevail and where
therefore, His perfection is available for you to experience and where your
capacity to be utterly and perfectly appropriate—because the Father’s Will is
what is finding expression in you—allows healing to be experienced by others.

This is extremely important. 

The Bridge to the Real World is the natural next place to bring yourself to—the
holy instant.  Why?  So that you might be happy in your illusions?  So that you
might continue to see something else right where the Kingdom of Heaven is?  No!
But so that you can see Reality as it is right here, right now.  That’s the
whole point.

Now the new section:  The Bridge To The Real World, begins:

The search for the special relationship is the sign that you equate yourself
with the ego, and not with God.1 

Why does it say that?  Because it’s the orphan, it’s the independent authorizer
who has gotten a divorce from his Father, who seeks and values the special
relationship because its existence or its seeming existence as a viable entity
independent from the Father can only be experienced that way when there’s
a mutual agreement to that misperception.  It’s the only way.  And so a special
relationship is essential.

For the special relationship has value ONLY to the ego. 

To the orphan mindset.

To the ego UNLESS a relationship has special value it has NO meaning, and it
perceives ALL love as special.

Now:

To the ego UNLESS a relationship has special value it has NO meaning, . .

. . . that’s because it’s only when it has special value that it contributes
to, reinforces and seems to substantiate the actuality of an independent agent,
separate and apart from God, his Father/Mother.  You see?

Yet this CANNOT be natural, for it is unlike the relationship of God and His
Son, and all relationships that are unlike this One MUST be unnatural. 

What does that mean “unnatural”?  It means it doesn’t fit in with the laws of
God.  It calls for correction.  It calls for specific, disciplined, consistent
hanging in there, desiring to know the truth, see the truth, feel the truth,
have an experience of Reality right where your conditioning is blocking you
from it.   For God created love as He would have it be, and gave it as it IS.

Simple, pure consistency . . . uncomplicated . . . doesn’t change as it goes
down the road becoming something else a little bit different, not quite like
its original.  No . . . 

. . . God created love as He would have it be, and gave it as it IS. Love has
no meaning except as its Creator defined it by His Will. It is impossible to
define it otherwise and UNDERSTAND it.

No other mutual agreement that anyone comes to about it can change it from what
it is.  And any attempt to redefine it and agree to believe the
misunderstanding will cause you not to understand what Love is.  And it calls
for correction, persistent intent to answer the call for Love, to answer the
  need for correction until you have the transformative experience of it that
  can be photographed and recognized by all. 

And, you know what?  Reality is photographable.  The Kingdom of Heaven is
experienceable.  And the Kingdom of Heaven is everything you’re experiencing
without flaws, without having any misuse assigned to it, without being capable
of harm in any way.  You see?  Identifying fulfillment totally.  

“Oh, well you know, I didn’t really know that I was supposed to look forward to
an actual healing.  I didn’t know that I wasn’t supposed to just settle for
three-quarters of the fulfillment or some fulfillment that just slightly
skewed—beautiful but recognizably not perfect.  I didn’t know that I wasn’t
supposed to be happy with that.”  That’s like saying, “I didn’t know that
a call for correction was really a call for correction!”  Now I’m not making
fun of anyone.  I am conveying to you that a call for correction is a call for
correction that takes you all the way to the conscious, tangible experience of
the Kingdom of Heaven . . . here . . . in this lifetime . . . now.  That’s what
this is about.  There are laws of God.  There are principles.  There are ways
to behave. 

And you know what?  The Ten Commandments and the Beatitudes are very helpful,
but you know where I want you to go to get the laws of God?  I want you to go
into the holy instant.  I want you to go into the silence of your Being where
you have abandoned being willful, where you have abandoned determining the
meaning of everything for yourself, where you have abandoned commitment to the
meanings that everyone else has given you, that you have accepted without once
having had a direct, inner experience of the law of God, which is Love and the
laws of God that fulfill the law of Love in infinite ways.  Don’t go to the
list in the book.  Go within.  “Oh, I think that’s called the two-step.  And
I think that’s the way you practice the holy instant.”  And now it’s clearer
than ever before why you’re practicing the holy instant.  Not just so that you
might experience the fact that here is where God's laws prevail.  But the fact
that because here in that inner altar of your Being, God's laws prevail, you
see the evidence of the Kingdom of Heaven come to view and it looks like
transformation of the world.  Because all it really is, is a shift of
perception in which your misperceptions yield to what everything originally was
and has continued to be in spite of the fact that you’ve insisted on overlaying
your own definitions upon it all and, as a result, have blinded yourself to the
perfection of Being, which a sudden shift of perception, called, “a miracle”
uncovers to you as your conscious experience.  

Now, we’re still talking about the two-step.  We’re still talking about the
holy instant.  We’re still talking about abandoning the special relationship. 
And we’re still talking about shifting from body-identification to
Mind-identification.  And I trust that I have been talking about it in a way
that has crystallized even further for you how things work, so that you are
less confused and so that you are able to bring willingness rather than
willfulness into play with greater consistency, so that correction will occur
and correction will mean something more than just a new idea in your head that
makes you feel temporarily more comfortable.  Uh-huh.  You deserve an
experience that will be eternally satisfying because it will be the truth
experienced without there ever being an alteration of it again.

Now I may not have talked as long as usual tonight, but I have given you about
three times as much as I have ever given before in longer periods of time.

I bet it’s going to be a great week for you.  And I look forward to being with
you next time.


 

A Course In Miracles (reference pages) Chapter 16 - Section - THE BRIDGE TO THE
REAL WORLD 1 Sparkly Book - p. 393   /   JCIM -  p. 165   /   CIMS - p. 331
First Edition  -  p. 321   /   Second Edition - p. 345





All of the activities of the Northwest Foundation for "A Course In Miracles"
are provided without charge or obligation.  This is possible because of
thoughtfulness, love extended without conditions.  Such is the nature of Gift.
As a result these materials are available to you, because someone like you has
already gifted you with them.  And, at Raj's instruction, these materials will
never be sold.  If you would like to add your thoughtfulness and love, to gift
others with the availability of these materials, you're invited to make
a tax-deductible contribution at our website, or send it to our address, both
of which are shown below.       A Course in Miracles Study Group with Raj,
November 13th 2010 © by The Northwest Foundation for “A Course in Miracles”
a non-profit corporation. All rights reserved PO Box 1490 / Kingston, WA
98346-1490 / USA Phone: 360-638-0530   Fax: 360-881-0071 Website:
http://www.nwffacim.org E-Mail: paul@nwffacim.org      



