---
title: "Way of the Heart - Lesson One"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
---

<p class="tr_break"> Now, we begin. </p>

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. I
come forth in this hour, yet again, to abide with you where you believe
yourself to be. For in Truth, if it were not for the fact that you are
choosing to turn your attention to the world of physicality through the
vehicle of the body, our communication would not require the device of
what you might call “channeling,” nor the devices of the technologies of
this world in which to record and capture spoken words that are
themselves but the reflection of what the words would point your mind
toward.

Therefore, beloved friends, I come not for myself, but for you. I come
not to teach you, but to love you, until you choose, from the depth
within your own being, to set aside every illusion you have ever given
credence to, and to remember the Truth which alone is true. For indeed,
in that hour, there is a transcendence of all that knows limitation.
There is a transcendence of all that knows coming and going, birth and
death. There is but the Mind of Christ within which each of us, as a
spark of Divine Light, as a sunbeam to the sun, rests eternally in
perfect communion and communication, always. Now of course, the great
secret is that, that is the state of your reality. That in each and
every moment, you abide in perfect communion with the whole of creation,
since all things are but temporary modifications of the one fundamental
energy which I have chosen to call the Christ Mind, the offspring of the
Father.

And so, beloved friends, I come to where you choose to be. And if you
would choose to open that place within the heart and within the mind in
which you can communicate with me directly, I will meet you there as
well. 

<!-- Track t2 --> <!-- split paragraph -->

What is important, then, by way of our beginning, is to consider
the simple fact that your experience is always the effect of where you
choose to focus the attention of your consciousness, its Self being
unlimited forever, embracing all the many dimensions of creation. You
abide in that which embraces all things, in all ways, and at all times.
And in Truth, you do not know separation, birth or death, gain or loss.

In this hour, as you have taken the tape from its envelope and put it
into your machinery, recognize how you, as an infinite being, have
deliberately chosen to participate in a form of experience. You have,
therefore, called to yourself the sensory apparatus of the body through
which to filter the energies of this physical domain, that you might
hear vibrations against vocal chords that create words that carry
certain meanings for each and every one of you. And each and every one
of you will color that meaning according — according — to the
perceptions that you have chosen to place value upon.

Does this mean that some are ahead and some behind? It only seems that
way. In reality, each of you is equal; each of you, choosing from your
infinite freedom to attract to yourself certain vibrational frequencies,
if you will — certain forms or qualities of experience. That freedom is
what you abide in always, from before the foundations of this world, and
long after this world ceases to be. In each and every moment, then, you
cannot be a victim of what you see, and nothing is outside of you. What
you experience you have directly and deliberately called to yourself.
And if you hold the thought that, “Well, I don't like what I've called
to myself,” that's perfectly okay, too. For then, you have called to
yourself the experience of being in judgment of yourself. Merely look
with the wonder of a child and see what it feels like and ask yourself,

> Is this an energy I wish to continue in, or would I choose something
> else?

For ultimately, when all possible choices within the dream of separation
have been made, have been tasted, have been felt, have been known, then
finally there emerges the still, quiet Voice of Spirit that speaks
through the soul — and we'll come back to that — whispering of the one
Truth and the one reality, the one Love, the one peace, the one bliss
that is continual.

Then, the soul begins to turn from the things of this created world. It
begins to withdraw its attention, as it were, from its attachments to
all of the things it has called to itself. It begins to transcend its
sense of identification with the vibrational frequencies it had only
meant to play with, and then took seriously. For it is seriousness
within the mind which is the creation of ego, and it is great
seriousness that holds the vibrations of what you would no longer
experience within the field of your being, within the field of your
soul.

And as you, as the soul — the individual divine spark — begins to choose
to withdraw the attention, to withdraw the value you have placed upon
all things, and as you learn to simplify the nature of your own
consciousness, as you begin to realize that you can surrender into
something that seems beyond you, that you can entertain the insane
thought of trusting the invisible, you come more and more to be less and
less. And as you become less and less of what you thought you were,
conversely, you become more and more of what your Father created you to
be — *the Thought of Perfect Love in form*, a channel, a simple vehicle
through which that Love of Spirit can shine forth. And your only task
becomes the cleaning of your windows, the polishing of your floors, the
weeding of your garden, so that *that* Light can pour forth unimpeded.

No longer will you find the need to defend perceptions you had
*identified* with in error. And you will, indeed, know when you have come
to that state of awakening, for you will be able to look upon all
created things that you have ever experienced, all reactions you have
ever held within the mind, all perceptions, all judgments, all desires
that you have ever held for anyone or anything, and as they arise in
your mind, they will not disturb your peace. And you will smile. And you
will see that within your consciousness has arisen all saintlihood and
all devilishness. You have been both saint and sinner, and your
happiness and your unhappiness has been merely an effect of where you
would choose to place your attention.

<!-- Track t3 -->

Indeed, beloved friends, I come forth to meet you wherever you are,
because I have chosen to use the infinite power of consciousness, given
me of the Father, as equally as it is given unto you, to discover how
deep delight can be when the mind is focused only on seeing from, and
seeing only, the Mind of Christ. I have, therefore, called to my Self
all multitude of experiences, even when I walked upon your beloved Earth
as a man — in order to challenge myself, in order to test myself, in
order to condition myself, to rise above, to transcend all possible
experiences that could distract me from the remembrance of who I am.

You could say, by the way, that my crucifixion was simply the climax of
my own direct choice to be challenged by the events of space and time,
so that I could cultivate, within myself, the ability to see from, and
to see only, the perfect purity of the Mind of Christ.

The point that I'm seeking to make with you is that, in each and every
moment, what you are experiencing in the realm of your emotions and
mind, and the effects, to a latter degree, within the body, are there
because you — from your infinite freedom — have simply selected that
experience, that energy, to focus your attention on, so that you can see
what the effects are.

The insanity, you see, does not come from having chosen to see something
other than the Mind of Christ. The insanity, which you experience as
your pain and as your suffering and your seeking and your dramas, comes
only from your mistaken choice to become identified with what arises in
the field of your awareness. You, therefore, lose the sight of
innocence. For, indeed, all events are perfectly neutral, and you are
free to see them any way you want.

When a child is born — and many of you who are mothers know this — you
can experience a depth of joy that is unspeakable. Likewise, you can
also experience fear and contraction at the thought of having to be
responsible for a child. When a loved one dies, and you experience grief
and suffering, rest assured it is because you have chosen to contract
your attention, so that all you can see is the loss of an animated body,
and thereby convince yourself that you have become separated from the
loved one.

I speak from experience when I share with you that separation is an
illusion. And when death occurs in your plane, in that very moment, you
still have the power to choose to recognize that something has changed,
and to shift your attention to a different faculty that the body could
never possibly contain, in which you perceive and hear and communicate
with that spark of Divine Light — the soul — that seems to have given up
the idea of trying to keep a physical form animated.

It is, therefore, imperative and, in fact, it is the very first step on
what we are going to begin to call *The Way of the Heart*. The first step
in awakening is to allow into the mind the thought, the axiom, the
Truth, that *nothing which you are experiencing is caused by anything
outside of you*. You experience only the effects of your own choice.

<!-- Track t4 -->

For you see, during this coming year, we will be building, month by
month, on what I'm choosing now to call *The Way of the Heart*. It is the
way unknown to the world. It is a way unknown to many that would call
themselves spiritual teachers, for it is not a way of resting on, or
becoming dependent on, magical means. It is, rather, that pathway which
cultivates within you the decision to turn your attention upon your own
mind, upon your own behavior, upon what is true and real for you, moment
to moment — to study it, to consider it, to feel it, to breathe the
Light of Spirit through it, and to constantly retrain the mind so that
it assumes complete responsibility in each moment.

And why is this necessary? Because, without it, there can be no peace.
Without it, you can not transcend the false identifications that you
have chosen. To use, perhaps, a simpler form of your language, you need
to come to the point where you say to yourself,

> I've done this to myself. I did it, I must correct it. No one is to
> blame. The world is innocent.

And in the coming months, we will be communicating with you more and
more deeply, the finer points, if you will, of *The Way of the Heart*. For
it is that way that was taught to me, and it is that way to which I have
pointed you with many, many clues. It is that way that brings about the
reversal of every thought you have ever had about any one or any thing.
It is that way, alone, which allows you to pass back through the eye of
the needle, and to come to rest in the Perfect Peace from which you have
sprung forth.

<!-- Track t5 -->

*The Way of the Heart* is not the way of the intellect; for, indeed, that
aspect of the mind was never designed to be your master. It was designed
to be the humble, and — if you will pardon the expression — very stupid
servant of the Awakened Heart. The Heart is that which feels all things,
embraces all things, trusts all things, allows all things. The Heart is
that in which the soul rests eternally. The Heart is that which is
beyond space and time and is that spark of Light in the Mind of God,
which is called *Christ*. And only in That will you find the peace that
you seek.

You will discover, then, that the pathway of awakening is not a pathway
of avoidance, but a pathway of truthfulness. It is not a pathway of
accomplishment and pride, but a pathway of releasing from the
consciousness every hope and every wish to be special — to see yourself
as having “made progress,” so that you can pound a fist upon the chest
and spread the tail feathers. It is a transcendence of the hope of
somehow getting God's attention, so that he will look upon you and say,

> Oh, you've been such a good person. Oh, my goodness, yes. Well, I think
> we'll allow you into the Kingdom now.

It is a way in which you will come to cultivate — regardless of your
inner experience or degrees of awakening — to cultivate the willingness
and the art of returning to the simplicity of empty-headedness and
not-knowingness, with each and every breath. It is a way of life in
which all things and all events become an aspect of your meditation and
your prayer, until there is established, once again within you, the
Truth that is true always:

> Not my will, but Thine be done. For of myself, I do nothing. But my
> Father does all things through me.

Imagine, then, a state of being in which you walk through this world,
seemingly appearing like everyone else, and yet, you are spacious
within; you are empty within. In Truth, you desire nothing, though you
allow desire to move through you, and you recognize it as the Voice of
the Father, guiding your personality, your emotions, and even the body,
to the places, to the events, to the people, to the things, to the
experiences through which the tapestry of the Atonement is being woven,
through which all of the Children of God are called home again. And you
trust the complete flow of that, whether you are asked to give a speech
in front of ten thousand people, or you're asked to tell a friend the
truth of your feelings, or whether or not you are, perhaps, asked to
sweep the streets and live penniless. For in Truth, that mind that
*trusts* the Source of its creation allows all things, trusts all things,
embraces all things, and transcends all things.

Rest assured, then, whenever you feel frustration and anxiety, it is
because you have decided not to trust the Truth. And the Truth is simply
this: Only God's plan for salvation can work for you. Your way must
always fail, for your way begins with the illusory and insane assumption
that you are a separate being from the Mind of God and must, therefore,
direct your own course. For if you are sick and diseased and not at
peace, why would you decide that you know how to create peace? It
requires great humility to accept the first step of the path:

> I have done all this; I must undo it. But I have no idea how I did this.
> Therefore, I must surrender to something else.

<!-- Track t6 -->

I want to give you this thought, even as I gave it to this, my beloved
brother, some time ago. And the thought is this (and I would ask that
you consider it well):

What if the very life you are living, and each experience that is coming
to you now, since the moment you decided, “I've got to awaken here” —
what if everything was being directly sent to you of your Father,
because your Father knows what is necessary to unravel within your
consciousness to allow you to awaken? What if the very things you are
resisting are the very stepping stones to your homecoming? What if you
achieved a maturity along this pathway in which you were finally willing
to let things be just as they are?

And if it was necessary to sweep the streets, you simply took a deep
breath and said, “Father, you know the way home,” and therefore began
sweeping. And up into the mind comes the thought,

> Oh, my God, I won't be recognized. I won't stand out. People won't think
> I'm special if I'm just a street sweeper.

And you recognize,

> Ah-ha, no wonder my Father wants me to do this. I've got to flush this
> up so that I can look at it, dis-identify from it, and learn to be the
> presence of Love in the sweeping of the street.

For in Truth, I tell you, the least of these among you, according to
your perception, is already equal to the greatest. And there is none
among you who is less than I am.

<!-- Track t7 -->

And so, *The Way of the Heart* begins there. It begins by accepting the
humility that you've created quite a mess within your consciousness.
You've created a labyrinth and gotten lost within it, and you don't know
the way back — that *of yourself, you can do nothing*. For all you've
managed to achieve is the creation of a whole lot of insane dramas that
are, in Truth, occurring *nowhere* except within the field of your mind.
They are like chimeras, like dreams. In Truth, there is no difference
between a waking state, in which you would be the director of your life,
and the dreams you have when the body sleeps at night. They are both the
same thing.

I wish to direct you to peace, even that peace which forever transcends
the understanding and comprehension of the world. I desire — because my
Father desires it through me — to bring you wholly to where I am, that
you might discover there is someone that got there ahead of you. And
when you look closely, you go,

> Ahhh, it's my Self. I've always been there, but I forgot.

And in the end of all journeying, in the end of all purification — and,
indeed, purification is still necessary — you will discover that to
awaken means to have journeyed nowhere. It means to have arrived at a
goal that has never changed.

Awakening is only remembrance--but it is a remembrance not just of the
intellect; for it is not an idea, as you would understand ideas. It is
an idea that vibrates through the whole field of your beingness, so that
even the cells of the body — while yet the body remains coalesced
together in its present form — even the cells of the body *awaken* and
*relax* into the Truth that is true always.

<!-- Track t8 -->

*The Way of the Heart* ... If you were a gardener, would you not
cultivate the art of weeding your garden? Would you not look to see that
the soil is just the correct dampness? Would you not keep your eye on
the clouds on the horizon and the heat of the day? Would you not cover
the delicate plants that need protection while they grow strong? And if
those that would come would not respect your garden, would you not ask
them to leave, or build a temporary fence until the garden is strong
enough — until it bursts forth with enough fruit so that you can give to
even those who do not respect it?

Be you, therefore, a wise gardener. Cultivate a deep love and respect
for *yourself*, for you are not here to “fix” the world. You are not here
to “fix” your brother or sister. ‘Tis only Love that heals. And until
you have loved *yourself* wholly, by having purified the mind of every
erroneous thought you've ever held——until you've loved——you do not, in
Truth, love anyone or anything, save in those brief moments when you let
your guard down and the Love of God shines forth, through you, so
quickly you don't even know what happened. For the wise gardener
cultivates a state of consciousness in which the Love of God is
unimpeded.

Beloved friends — those of you that have elected to answer a call to
participate in this pathway, with this Family — if you would make your
commitment to trusting your Creator for having set before you a pathway
that can, indeed, lead you home, you will, indeed, arrive at home. But
commitment means that you don't get to leave the room when the shouting
begins. The shouting we're speaking of is the shouting within your own
mind, within your own body, within your own emotions. That you will stay
with these things by being honest about them, and loving yourself for
ever having the power to even create such insane perceptions of yourself
and the world around you.

<!-- Track t9 -->

*The Way of the Heart* is the final pathway that any soul can enter. There
are many stages of awakening. There are many pathways that can be
followed, but ultimately, “All roads lead to Rome,” so they say.
Eventually each soul must find its way into *The Way of the Heart*, and
come back to the Truth that it's time to take responsibility, to learn
to cultivate the ability to look upon the deep and vicious blackness of
what I have called ego, which is nothing more than the cesspool of
denial — it is that which lacks Light — and begin to bring Light back to
it by simply observing your own mind, your own behavior, your own
reactions with a sense of wonder, with a sense of innocence, with a
sense of childlikeness.

For is it not written that you must again become a little child to enter
the Kingdom? The little child simply marvels at all that they see:
“Well, how about that?” Can you imagine looking upon the deepest,
darkest parts of your own shadow, your own denials and being able to
say, “Oh, how about that!”? Hmm. Remember, then, that everything is
neutral, and in Truth all that which arises within your consciousness
*has no effect* upon the Truth of your reality.

*The Way of the Heart*, then, is a way of cultivating the decision to
become identified with the Light that can shine away all darkness — not
by fighting with it, but by recognizing it, embracing it as your own
creation, and choosing again. *The Way of the Heart* is the way that I
teach. And now we begin a more focused — shall we say — year-long study,
a year-long cultivation together, that *The Way of the Heart* might become
established within your *holy* mind. And we will be drawing, indeed, upon
many sources. And there may be some surprises according to who may
choose to speak to you through this vehicle.

But rest assured, at all times and in all ways, I have committed myself
to gently directing the birthing and the manifestation of what you have
come to call Shanti Christo. The idea was given by me. And what I give,
I nurture. And what I create, together with you, I do not abandon.
Therefore, you will find that I will be here always. We will have yet to
see whether you will be.

Remember then, always, that the Truth is true always. Is it not time,
beloved friends, to truly step into ownership of your only reality? *The
Way of the Heart* does not know the word *avoidance*. *The Way of the Heart*
does not know deception, manipulation, or control. *The Way of the Heart*
does not know blame, although it watches these things arise as echoes of
old patterns now outgrown. It learns to see them, to recognize them,
like you might recognize certain kinds of clouds that pass through the
sky, and then to turn the attention of the mind, that a new choice might
be made.

<!-- Track t10 -->

*The Way of the Heart* is the way that calls you home. And the call comes
from that deep part of your soul that is still like unto the Spirit,
which abides as Christ in the Holy Mind of God. Trust, then, that you
are as a sunbeam to the sun. And trust not the perceptions you have
cultivated in error. For you are not alone on the way that you journey,
and you journey not apart from your brothers and sisters. This Family
cannot know separation, though some may seem to come and go. For once
the call to awaken through *this* lineage has been acknowledged, though
bodies may not communicate in space and time, rest assured,
communication remains, and there is no way to avoid it.

And so, we begin *The Way of the Heart*. We enter, now, a stage where it's
time to stop listening out of polite kindness or out of curiosity, and
to step into the willingness to don the mantle of that one *committed to
healing every obstacle to the presence of Love* that may yet remain
secretly hidden in the depth of that part of your mind which would
struggle to be separate from God, and to remember that you are truly the
Light that can come to shine, lovingly, upon every aspect of darkness
you have known.

So along this pathway this year, you are going to learn how to shake
hands with the devil, and to do a little jig with him, and recognize his
face to be your own. For when you can dance with the darkness that you
have created, that darkness is transformed into an angel. And Light
abides with Light.

We will be giving you, and bringing forth, certain meditations, if you
will, certain energetic practices to help cultivate within you a quality
of *feeling* that will allow you to recognize energies that do not serve
you, in a way that transcends what your mind may choose to think of
these energies, so that you learn more and more to lead with the body,
if you will, to lead with your feeling nature, not your intellect. For
your intellect does not know anything except the trivialities that you
have shoved into it, like garbage into a garbage can. The intellect can
*never* bring the healing of the Heart that *is* the Atonement. It can only
be utilized to argue against the insane perceptions you are used to, so
that you might come to see that perhaps there is a greater good in
giving up your insistence on treating the intellect as your god.

<!-- Track t11 -->

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, dance often, rejoice, play often. Let
this year be that year in which you bring up within yourself everything
unworthy of the Mind of Christ — every thought of scarcity, every sense
of unworthiness, every fear. Let them come up, look at them, embrace
them, transmute them through your own love of self and through your
honesty. Accept where you are and don't pretend to be otherwise, for the
wisest are always the humblest.

Be you, therefore, at peace, beloved friends. Be you, therefore, at
peace in all things. For we delight — and I speak here of the many “we”
who are in what you might call a disembodied state, who are electing to
participate with you that are asking to be helped this year, through
this way. We delight in joining with you! We delight in loving you! We
delight in waiting on you to welcome your Self home!

Therefore, indeed, we will begin to end this message of this hour now.
But as we close, I would ask that you would close your eyes for just a
moment and take a deep breath into the body and let it go. And as the
breath leaves the body, hold the thought that there is nothing worth
holding onto any longer that keeps your peace and happiness at arm's
length. Become committed — become *fully* committed — to the experience of
happiness, even as you've been fully committed to unhappiness, and
limitation, and lack. Give your Creator full permission this year to
sweep the basement clean. There really isn't anything down there worth
defending or protecting.

And it will come to pass that you will know the perfect peace of
empty-headedness, not-knowingness. You will know what it means to be
relieved of time and to be comforted by what is eternal.

Peace be unto you always. And never once let yourself think that you are
alone. It is what they call — what is this word you have — “haberdash.”
Hmm. What is this haberdash? That is an interesting term. It is nonsense
for you to think that I'm not with you. You have asked. I picked up the
phone. We are in communication. That is the way it is. That is the way
it will be until the end of all illusion.

Amen.

---

## Question One

*Question One:* What motivates you? How does an enlightened person move
throughout his or her day? Apparently you have moved into a state of
Oneness with Source, yet you still have a distinct, unique personality.
You are still a Self, yet you are also One with God. Can you describe
what this state is like for us?

*Answer:* Beloved friend. What motivates me? Worldly accolades. Being hung
on so many walls in so many churches across the world. Hmm . . . All of
the many priests and ministers who make a very good living professing to
teach my teaching, although they teach fear, and guilt, and judgment.
Hmm. What motivates me? The bets that I have placed with my “comrades in
arms,” who often believe that I’m wasting my time with humanity. For
there are, indeed, many Masters in many dimensions that wouldn’t touch
this plane with a ten-thousand foot pole. And yet, I say unto you,
beloved friend, I speak somewhat tongue-in-cheek, although I don’t have
one.

What motivates *me* is what must come to motivate *you* when the Christ Mind
is awakened within your being, and has come to outshine any other
possibility. For what will motivate you is the deep appreciation for the
Grace that has healed your mind, the great Mystery from which you have
arisen, that somehow reaches into your illusions and brings you Home.
You know not how. *Love* of your Creator will motivate you as you become
more and more empty of self, empty of fear, empty of the need to
survive, empty of everything unlike Love, and more and more conformed to
the *instrument of peace*.

Beloved friend, what motivates me is the very fact that you exist, and
that, at times, within you, your soul has cried out to come Home. And
because my Father has brought me home, because I know how perfect it is,
how can I not extend myself to you? So to my many comrades, who seem to
wish to avoid ever taking on the human experience, I simply, politely,
nod my non-physical head and say,

> Well yes, but you see, I know that no one goes Home until everyone goes
> Home.

I am merely your brother. And I seem to have gone ahead of you a little
while. And yet, I say this unto you, *The Way of the Heart* must cultivate
within you — and will — the recognition that there is no one and nothing
outside of you, and that only Love has the power to heal. And,
therefore, everyone that comes into your life is an aspect of your
savior, teaching you to cultivate the forgiveness, and the patience, and
the willingness to hear not the voice of ego within you, but to trust
the guidance of the Holy Spirit in all matters, regardless of how insane
it may seem to the world. What motivates me is the Grace that released
me from all illusion, even as that Grace is already at work
accomplishing the same within you.

What does it mean to go through the day in an enlightened state? I would
be happy to tell you, only I have no days, for a day is a function of
time. Time is something I no longer know anything about. It is not
something that pervades my beingness. I abide only in what is eternal.
And when fear has been completely uprooted from within your beingness,
you, too, will know timelessness. There is a message in that answer. I
hope you’re listening.

Beloved friend, what is it like to be One with the Source of all
Creation, and yet to hold an individuated consciousness? Why not ask
yourself? You know perfectly well. For in Reality, you *are* One with the
Source. And again, as the message of this hour has shared, you are
acting from your infinite perfection at all times, to call qualities of
experience, qualities of energy to yourself. That is exactly what I do.
The only difference is, I have chosen to call only that of the *highest
possible vibrations*, while you are choosing to say to yourself and to
me,

> Well, yes, yes. All that bliss stuff is fine, but I’d still like to get
> a little taste of drama and suffering. I just want to make sure I’ve got
> this down before I leave this plane.

In all respects, the choosing mechanism within you is equal to that
within me. Therefore, understand well, if you would know what it means
to know you are One with your Creator, while yet exhibiting an
individuality, simply begin to observe your own mind, your own choices,
your own experiences, with perfect innocence, constantly reminding
yourself that the Truth is true always. As a sunbeam can never escape
the sun, as a wave can never escape the ocean, you remain as you are
created to be. And you are given *infinite* and *perfect freedom*, because
you are made in the image of God.

Therefore, beloved friend, consider well what you would desire and what
your intention will be. Ask yourself, moment to moment,

> What am I truly committed unto? For what I am committed to is the focus
> of my intention. And the intention that I focus on brings to me the
> fulfillment of my desire. And what I am experiencing, like it or not, is
> <span class="tr_normal">always</span> the <span class="tr_normal">effect</span> of 
> my <span class="tr_normal">desire</span>.

---

## Question Two

*Question Two:* Would you please comment on the world of sexuality and sexual
expression for those of us committed to a path of spiritual evolution?

*Answer:* Well, indeed, beloved friend, if you would be committed to a
role of genuine spiritually, you must put that which is called, I
believe, the *chastity belt* upon the body. You must separate yourself
from all those who seem to elicit little tickles of sensations in your
body. Hmm. You must banish from yourself all thought of another body
next to yours. Hmm. And if these things arise, by all means, whip
yourself! Hmm!

Beloved friend, I’ve said many times that *all events are neutral, all
experiences are neutral*. They will be, therefore, precisely what *you
choose* them to be. Sexuality ... In your world, most minds take this
to mean that there is some sort of juxtapositioning of physical bodies,
some groping of the hands, and the lips, and the tongues, and what have
you. But, indeed, this is only the outer reflection, or the symbolic
expression, of the energies being held within the mind.

It is most appropriate to say that all of Creation is an act of
sexuality. It is an expression of energy which wishes to birth forth
with *great passion — Creation!* And all relationships between two bodies,
or between the moon and the sun, between the Earth and the sky — all
forms of relationship are inherently the same. They hold within
themselves the promise, and the purpose, and the challenge of
discovering the *unity* between the two or the three or the ten. It
doesn’t matter.

Therefore, sexuality, as you understand it in your world, is only what
you will choose it to be. It does not, *necessarily*, accelerate your
awakening. And it does not, *necessarily*, impede it. What you approach
with sanctity and purity of heart, what you approach in every
relationship, what you approach from the recognition that Creation
streams forth only from the Mind of God and, therefore, the Light of
Love, the presence of Christ is present in that one before whom you
stand or, perhaps, whom you lay next to. What you approach with *sanctity*
is sanctified. What you approach with *secretness*, what you approach with
*neediness*, is demoralized and destroyed.

I would say unto you, beloved friend, you cannot transcend what is not
first embraced. Therefore, search the soul well, to see if there is any
*fear* of the great *intimacy* and *vulnerability* that can be experienced in
sexuality. Is there something in you conflicted that is not allowing you
to truly drink in the beauty of the physical form of another, to pause
over every curve and every dimple, and even every little hair upon the
body? Can you see within *this* grand Mystery? Can you pause long enough
to lose the false self? Can you *sanctify* the touching of flesh? For I
say unto you, you are the creator of what you experience.

Sexuality is a grand thing! Let no one tell you that I avoided it when I
was a man. After all, that’s the whole point. I was, after all, a man.
But I *sanctified* it to keep it holy. And sexuality can be experienced in
its totality merely by looking into the eyes of another and setting
yourself aside, and asking only to see the Face of Christ. For
sexuality, the great longing within humanity, is to find some method,
some way to transcend the *fear*, the *guilt*, the *deep contraction* which is
ego, to find some way to slip through the cracks and experience some
momentary bliss of the unity of Oneness.

But I say unto you, cultivate the Reality of your Oneness within
yourself. And, indeed, you will find that all relationships, whether you
be with a body, with a blade of grass, or with the wind that touches
your skin, will feel like a sexual experience, as long as the body
lasts. Let then, this energy *fill* you. Feel the *bliss* and the *pleasure*
and the *joy* of sensuality and sexuality. See it happening all over the
place on your planet because, without it, the planet wouldn’t even
exist.

Beloved friend, have you not ever watched little children who run naked
through the fields and play with their genitals without the least bit of
thought? They derive from it a moment of pleasure and occasionally, they
may touch each other. There is no judgment in this. There is only
innocence. And the adults look and go,

> Oh, isn’t that cute?

And some of them go,

> Oh! Oh my God! Charlie, please, cover that up! You can’t do that!

Hmm.

> Mary, put your dress back down!

Why? What is the adult afraid of, if not Life itself?

And make not of sexuality a specialness, but rather, cultivate within it
the sanctified state of consciousness in which you are deliberately
choosing to set aside yourself, to *let Christ love Christ*. Sexuality is
a rather good thing, if you choose to use the power of your beingness to
*sanctify* it, that it may be *holy*. For what is *holy* gives rise to
*wholeness*. And what is fragmented through fear, through guilt, through
neediness, through mere lust, what is thus fragmented leads to
fragmentation within one’s consciousness.

Bless sexuality. Let it become sanctified. And set aside all of those
incarnations you held as a nun in monasteries, listening to false ideas
out of someone else’s fear of the body. It is only a communication
device. What would you, therefore, choose to communicate through your
experience of sexuality?

Be at peace, beloved friend, and while the body lasts my suggestion to
you would be: Enjoy it!

---

## Question Three

*Question Three:* I understand healing as Jeshua speaks of it in *A Course in
Miracles*, yet what needs to occur for bodily symptoms to no longer be in
one’s experience?

*Answer:* Beloved friend, as I have spoken of healing in that text which
you know as *A Course in Miracles*, is, indeed, the fundamental definition
of healing. By considering it, it must flush up within you all the
deeply held hopes and prayers and beliefs and need to have healing be
something that also manifests the perfection of the function of the
body, according to your desire of what that perfection should be.

What is necessary, then, for the removal of physical symptoms? The
miracle. But the miracle is not something which is under your control.
Listen well to the message of this session, for I’ve indicated already
to you, and *deliberately* indicated, the answer to your question and you
will find it there. For, rest assured beloved friend, when there arises
within the mind the hope or the wish that a physical symptom would leave
the body, there must already be the enactment of an ancient belief that
the body is what you are. And that, therefore, disease of some kind, as
you would call it this, limits your ability to extend Love, to
communicate with all of Creation, and to be at peace.

You may rest assured that when my many friends saw me with a crown of
thorns upon my head, they thought,

> Oh, poor Loved One,

out of the belief that certainly spirituality must mean the power to
overcome everything the mind has judged as a dis-ease.

The point that I’m seeking to reach with you is an attempt to dig deep
within the depth of your psyche, to bring to the surface with you an
ancient belief that true spirituality is recognized by all absence of
disease, and that if you were truly whole, it would never arise within
the body. Yet I say this unto you: What if every moment of your
experience was literally being brought to you of the Father, Who alone
knows the perfect plan for the healing of your mind?

Remember: *It is not possible to transcend what is not wholly loved*.
Therefore, place the attention on deepening the *love of Self*, the
exploration of the experience that has been called to the consciousness,
through the form of dis-ease, of whatever kind. Learn to look upon it
with the perfect innocence that you would look upon anything else. And
see through it to see that it does not limit you in any way from being
the unlimited presence of Love. It is not a weakness. And it is not to
be compared to what may appear to be a diseaseless body. For the eyes of
the body do not show what is within another’s soul.

Beloved friend, there is a part of you that carries an ancient tear. Let
it be released and healing will come.

