---
title: "Way of the Heart - Lesson Seven"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
- Question Four
- Question Five
---

Now, we begin.

Forever, I am with you. *Forever, I am with you.* For long before the
stars were birthed, long before the planets arose, long before even a
thought of physicality had emerged within the Divine Mind of the Son of
God, we were already created together and equally. And yet, that
Creation of what alone is real knows no point of birth. Therefore,
because the Father is forever, so too, have we abided together, held
together, sustained together, in Love. And throughout all time and even
unto eternity do we abide together in the reality of Who we are.
Therefore, think it not extraordinary when I say unto you,

> I am with you always, even unto the end of this age.

What journey have *you* ever taken that is not familiar to *me*? What
journey have *I ever* taken that is, in Truth, not familiar to *you*? For
when you look upon me and from some deep place of knowingness within,
though the words may be different, you say within yourself,

> Behold! Christ appears before me.

... when you hold a thought of me in the mind, and the body is flooded with
emotion, soft and gentle and light, and you recognize that the holy Son
of God was birthed, perfected in your friend, even one Jeshua ben
Joseph, what is it within you that *knows* that this is the Truth? What
part of your mind, what capacity within your heart can look upon me and
recognize the Truth within me, so that you love me? For I say well unto
you, it is equal and the same as that part of *my* mind, that part of my
heart that looks upon you and says,

> Behold! The holy Child of God is before me. And I love this one.

That which knows, that which comprehends immediately, is the Mind of
Christ, that recognizes Itself in each and every one. That Mind of
Christ dwells within you in its fullness *now*! And, therefore, as I have
said unto you many times, never fail to remember that it takes one to
know one. And if you would look upon me and say, “Beloved friend, thank
you,” look well upon yourself and say, “Beloved friend, thank you.”
Indeed, allow the breath to flow.

How many journeys have there been? Hm! How many moments of experience
passed under the bridge of your beingness, so to speak, before you first
began to reawaken to the Truth that is true always? How many life times,
how many worlds, before a Light began to dawn — so imperceptibly at
first that it was not recognized? And a tiny voice whispered from a
place that seemed so far removed from where you dwelt,

> Beloved Son, you are with Me now. You remain as I have created you to
> be. Therefore, be at peace. You are loved.

And the voice seemed so far away, so faint, that surely, it could not be
your own. Surely, it was just a moment’s fantasy. And in the midst of
some journey, you paused. And as a raindrop fell and hit a leaf, and
your eyes looked upon that experience [snaps fingers], you felt and knew
that you were one with the leaf and the raindrop, and that, indeed, you
were those things. How many moments of experience passed by before these
kinds of qualities began to emerge in your consciousness, as what seemed
to be tiny mad ideas?

> My God, I just felt myself to be one with all of Creation. Well, better
> not tell anyone about that.

Hmm ... and off you went.

But the moments began to come more often, still perhaps fleetingly, and
yet now more familiar — a sense underneath all of the drama, all of the
crying, all of the lamenting, all of the resenting, all of the fearing,
all of the striving, all of the seeking. The still tiny Voice would come
and say,

> Beloved Son, you remain as I have created you to be. You are loved. You
> are wholly loving and wholly lovable forever.

The tiny Voice would still steal through the roar and the din that had
seemed to make a home within your mind. And rest assured, you would not
be where you appear to be in this moment, if you had not already begun
to experience many moments that express the quality that I’ve just
described to you, of truly hearing the still, small Voice of the
Comforter within.

Therefore, indeed, each of you knows that there is a longing within you
that *cannot* and *will not* any longer be denied. You *know*, from the Christ
within you, that Christ has stirred within you, and is rising to take up
its rightful place as the Master of your mind and your heart and your
body and your breath and your dreams and your passions! And each of you
knows that it is absolutely futile to attempt to settle for anything
less. And if there be anyone here, in this moment, who actually and
truthfully doubts what I’ve just said, speak up. And so, silence is all
the evidence we require.

It does not come because of anything I have ever done *for* you. It comes
because it *must* come. It must arise within each created mind, regardless
of its journeys, regardless of its attempts to deny what is eternally
true. That’s called *the illusion of the dream of separation*. It must
come and it is inevitable because Christ will not be denied. Christ
*cannot* be denied because only Christ can express what is absolutely
true.

Only Christ can so *in*form the cellular structure of the body that even
the simplest of gestures extends Love unto another who beholds it. Only
Christ knows how to breathe the breath that releases all trauma, all
hurt. Only Christ understands the power of true forgiveness, which is
always, by the way, forgiveness of one’s self, since no one has wronged
you at any time. Only Christ can bring a smile to the lips of a body,
such that when another looks upon you and sees that smile, their heart
is filled. Only Christ can walk in this world, yet not be of the world.
And only Christ can transcend every limited and fearful creation into
the beautiful flower that blossoms and gives its sweet fragrance to all
of Creation. And is it not that which you long to feel moving through
your beingness? Is not that call to awaken alive within you? Oh, beloved
friends, you know that it is!

*Love you, therefore, one another.* And love you, therefore, the Self that
has been given unto you of the Father. Learn to hear *only* that Voice,
learn to desire *only* that Voice. Learn to follow only that Voice that
knows the Truth is true always:

> I and my Father are One. And this world is but a passing shimmer and a
> dream. It holds no value save that which Christ can bring to it. Only
> Love is real. And anything else is the choice to momentarily believe in
> illusion.

And, oh rest assured, illusion within an illusory world can seem to hold
great power. But all power has been given unto you. All power under
Heaven and Earth is given unto the holy Child of God. And that power
dwells within you as the Life of your life, the Breath of your breath,
the Truth of your truth, the Beingness of your beingness, and the Joy of
your joy. And there has never been an illusory creation that has ever,
in Truth, threatened it. And no illusion can take reality from you.

The only thing that can occur is that you use that power to believe in
loss. And all forms of loss that you perceive through the physical eyes,
or through the worldly mind, are nothing more than passing shades of
your insistence on believing that loss is possible. All forms of the
contraction known as fear are nothing more than temporary modifications
of the very power given unto you, a power that you have sought to use to
see if it were possible to convince yourself that something besides Love
is real.

But the story is over. The dream of separation is ending. The whole of
Creation is now experiencing a growing power, if you will, a movement, a
momentum that must carry the Mind, from which Creation springs, to a new
level, if you will. It’s not so much an evolutionary level as a level of
*re-cognition*, a level of *re-membrance*, a level of *re-turning*. And that
wave of momentum is alive and has already arisen within your heart and
mind. You know it. Stop denying it. Stop questioning it. Stop looking
for signs from the world around you that it’s okay to feel it. *Accept it*
as a divine gift from your Creator. For the call has gone out. And
though many listen, few hear, and fewer still become wholly devoted to
responding.

Therefore, let your prayer be always:

> May Christ, alone, dwell within and as this creation that I once thought
> was myself.

May Christ, alone, inform each thought and each breath and each choice.
May Love direct each step.

May Love transform this journey, through time, that in time, I might
truly know the reality of eternity, the sanctity of peace, the holiness
— the holiness — of intimacy, the joy of the Father’s Love, prior to
every breath and, indeed, even prior to every thought that arises within
the mind.

For when you know that you are Holiness Itself, how could you ever look
upon your brother or sister and believe that they have wronged you? How
could you ever want to do anything but love them? That is, let the Love
of Christ flow through you so deeply and so profoundly that they get
that you do not believe their illusion.

For when you give unto another that which alone is true, because all
minds are joined, you have offered unto them the only gift that holds
value. When you give another the Truth, perhaps even without saying a
word, again because all minds are joined, they recognize what has been
offered:

> The one before me knows the Truth of me and is looking right through
> every one of my attempts to be less than who I am. Therefore, I see that
> it’s safe to choose again.

And that is when miracles occur.

Do not strive to heal this world. Do not do anything to make a show of
how much you love another. Give up the concept of being a busy bee. And
simply *be* the presence of Love, simply because you *know* that there is
absolutely no value in being anything else, and that, in Truth, you have
never succeeded at being anything but the presence of Love.

Each sane moment that you’ve experienced, each moment of unlimitedness,
each moment of genuine intimacy, each moment of grace-filled joy that
you’ve ever known, in whatever form it seems to appear or be bottled
before you, has come because you’ve allowed your mind to slip into the
Sea of Peace. And you’ve merely abided, empty, wanting nothing, seeking
nothing, merely the presence of what you are. And when that quality
becomes cultivated so that it permeates your consciousness with each
breath and with each moment, you will know that Christ has, indeed,
arisen this day. And you’ll celebrate Easter with each breath.

What, then, could ever possibly arise to obstruct the Truth that is true
always? There is an ancient forest somewhere on your planet. A forest,
high in a rugged mountain valley, so rugged that no one has ever been
there. Unknown to the minds of humanity, life goes on in the forest.
Deep within the heart of this forest, this morning, a little tiny blade
of grass seemed to be tossed by an unseen wind. And as it was tossed for
just a fragment of a moment, so subtle and soft was this wind, that as
the sunlight played against this blade of grass, it cast the smallest of
conceivable shadows on a stone that lay just a little bit away from the
blade of grass.

No one noticed. The shadow had no effect. The rock didn’t even notice.
No one on the planet noticed. No one in any of the heavens noticed,
except me — I needed something to build a story around. That tiny
shadow, cast by a little blade of grass momentarily wiggled in a wind in
some remote forest, has virtually no effect on the turning of the
planets, the creation of new suns, and certainly not one trace of effect
on how deeply your Father loves you.

That little shadow is what you have given power to. And it seems to be
able to obstruct the Truth within you from being lived. For the moment,
you gave that little tiny shadow power. And that very moment, fear was
born. And fear is always a contraction away from Love. And fear makes
you smaller than the blade of grass that momentarily seems to cast a
shadow and, therefore, obstructs your recognition of the warmth of the
sun that bathes you *always*.

And when you resist healing — when you struggle to do what, as we have
been observing you here do, learning to ‘speak your truth’ — when you
resist healing in these ways, you may rest assured, that something has
occurred just prior to that. And it is your decision to believe that the
shadow is all-powerful, and that if you heal, if you grow, if you
change, if you let Christ live in you, that that little blade of grass,
and the little tiny shadow it creates for a very temporary moment, will
come and punish you and crush you.

And if you can truly take this story into your being and recognize the
*utter laughability* of such a belief, you will never again *fear* fear. You
will never again allow fear to master you and direct the course of your
life. You will, indeed, learn what it means to trust what is birthed in
the Heart. And you will arise and you will go forth without fear — with
no story at all. And you will accomplish whatever creativity wishes to
express through you. And the whole while you’ll know that of yourself
you do nothing, but the Father, through you, can do anything. Therefore,
indeed, what forms of the shadow of that blade of grass are you allowing
to run and own and possess your soul? Hmm! An interesting question.

There are many forms of that shadow, are there not? There are peers and
parents and siblings to please. And there are governments to bow down
before. There are mates and children that must come first. There are
bills to pay. There are desires to check and keep in order. Hmm! There
are activities and statements and behaviors, done by others, that
require at least seven or eight hours a day for you to analyze and judge
them to death:

> My, this world is exhausting. But somebody has to do it.

And you thought it was Love that makes the world go around? Trust me,
Love does not spin and get nowhere.

Love created you. Love birthed within you as an individual, at least
within the dance of time and space, the *power* to choose, the *power* to
feel, the *power* to know, the *power* to channel Light and Love, the *power*
to know that something exists within and *as you*, that’s what Love has
done! And has fear ever created anything remotely like that?

So what do you want — creation or mimicry, peace or the ability to
simply drug yourself with triviality? All power under Heaven and Earth
flowing through you with every breath so that your consciousness
witnesses ot what you do as the maker or doer, but that which the
Divine is doing through you in each moment — so that you get to marvel
at the creativity of Love, the very same Love that moves the sun and the
moon and other stars. Now *that’s* a delightful pastime!

And when your life, this one Life (and you only have one Life. You might
have many bodies but you will have one Life), when you give that one
Life wholly (what is this called here — “with the lock, the stock and
the barrel”), when you give it all to being only the presence of Love
... And if there are any cobwebs in the way of that, lets get on with
it and get them swept out of the way:

> I’ve got better things to do because the whole of Creation is waiting to
> move through me, and I want to be aware of it. I want my experience, my
> lived consciousness, to be blissfully absorbed in observing the flow of
> Love through this mystery ...

... you call the body and dare to call *your* body, as if you have some right
to possess it. Give the body to God. God knows how to use it, you don’t.
When you are in that place, Heaven and Earth will move to become your
servant . . . not until. Send a conflicted message, nobody shows up for
the dance. And when you move into that place, for no other reason than
besides that *you want it*, you will know, because you will *be* the Truth
that sets all things free.

So now you know what the shadow is. Perhaps sometimes you enjoy dancing
with it. The great question is: Are you going to let the shadow lead or
are you going to lead? When your life becomes that — I’m not speaking of
perfection as you would consider this — when your life becomes that
motivation, that attitude, that declaration, and that devotion, then
perfection will be witnessed through you. For perfection is miracle
mindedness in which that which saves time occurs. And when your life
becomes that, when you no longer have any conflicted — what is this
word? — *commitment*, when you no longer have any conflicted commitment in
your beingness, you will know exactly what the result of *my* life was for
me, because you will *be* that.

Yes, I know what you’re worried about:

> Does that mean that when I get really close, I’m going to have to go
> through my final initiation of crucifixion? And if I have to do it, will
> you promise that they at least sterilize the nails? Could I choose the
> day or the hour? I don’t like to get up too early.

Hmm! You already know what crucifixion is all about. You’ve done it to
yourself a million times in ways far worse than a mere nail driven
through the hand that creates a little twinge of pain. Hell is nothing
more than the state of being rutted, or stuck, in the process of
crucifying one’s Self, which is nothing more than the attempt to murder
and destroy what God has created out of Love.

Stop wasting your energy trying to love God. That won’t do it for you.
Stop wasting so much energy trying to learn how to love another. That
won’t do it for you. And for God’s sake, please refrain from all
attempts to get anyone to believe that you love them. Hmm!

Put the whole of your attention on giving up the patterns of belief from
which you have attempted to crucify the Self that God made and placed
within you as your very *awareness* of your existence. Learn to love that
Self beyond all created things. Learn to *nurture* that Self. Learn to
*cultivate* within that Self only that which speaks of joy and Truth, so
that your words and your actions and your very presence always uplifts
another, so that when another walks into the room in which you are
sitting or standing or moving, they feel like a breath of fresh air just
hit them, even if you haven’t lifted a finger.

As long as there is a trace of energy within you in which you are
striving to get from any perceived thing or object around you what you
are sure you lack inside yourself, you can not know the love of Self.
And you can not experience freedom. *Happiness is an inside job.* Hmm!

So then, what happens? You finally get it right and you decide,

> Okay. What’s that little shadow been doing? ... little blade of grass
> ... hmm! Well, let’s take care of that one and that one and that one
> and that one. How many blades of grass and how many shadows are there
> within this beingness that seems to be overlaid over the Self?

Does it matter? You’re busy birthing Christ!

What happens when that really occurs? First, and listen well, *nothing
will be unacceptable to you*.

> Well, but well, but, does that mean if somebody is not a vegetarian that
> they’re still loved? Hmm!

Does that mean if somebody votes for (what is this one — uhh, the man
named after the bird — Quayle), if someone were to vote for Quayle, does
that mean that they’re not insane, that I can love them? Hmm!

Does that mean that someone who seeks power and, therefore, creates a
war and kills five thousand women and children, that I can still look
upon them and not have my Love be disturbed?

Does it mean that whatever arises within this temporary world is really,
truly, literally, not a problem for me any longer, that nothing is
unacceptable?

Yes. It doesn’t mean you condone it. It means it’s no longer
unacceptable. For what you can not accept, you will *judge*. And every
judgment is the attempt to *murder* what you have decided has no right to
be.

Judgment is the opposite of forgiveness. It lives on the side of the
fence with fear. Forgiveness lives on the side of the fence with Love,
and only Love can heal this world. Imagine, then, living in a state of
beingness in which, literally, nothing was unacceptable to you, because
you knew that the Source of your true beingness was far beyond the
limitations of anything created in space and time — that even death,
which has been created out of the contraction known as fear, that not
even death is unacceptable.

When I spoke many months ago to this, my beloved brother, who allows me
to blend with his mind, and said to him, “If you will choose to trust
me, I will show you the way to peace,” I had to wait for his reply. I
could do nothing to take from him the freedom required to become wholly
committed to allowing Christ to be birthed where once a useless illusion
had reigned. And when I said to him (in your understanding of time)
quite some time ago, “I will show you how to become the being out of
which all of Creation is arising so that you will know the Truth that
sets you free,” it raised up within him the most root or fundamental of
fears possible. What is that? It is the last to be overcome: the *fear of
death*. For when you are confronted by the Truth, you know that
everything you have sought to create as a substitute for the Truth must
die. That is why it is said, “The last to be overcome shall be death” —
fear of death. Death is *allowed* that Christ might live.

There is no one in this room — listen carefully — there is *no one* in
this room, and there *shall not at any time be anyone who hears these
words*, to whom I have not spoken that promise unto. I will show you the
way to the Truth that is true always and sets you free. But *only you* can
make the decision to bring the *whole of your being* to that journey. And
all it requires is *this much willingness* — what you call a “smidgen” in
your world.

A smidgen of willingness is all it takes. I know the way home because I
have completed the journey, and I will show you that way. With every
word that I utter, in this form as well as in other forms, my one intent
is to reveal the place within you to yourself that is the presence of
Love that you seek.

What if you chose to actually commit yourself to considering and hearing
what I’m sharing, and return to the innocence of a child, as you
contemplated what it would mean in your life? Rest assured when the
journey to the Kingdom is completed, the journey *within* it begins anew.
And the bliss and the wisdom and the creativity and the laughter and the
friendships, the family, the joy, the serenity, the peace, that has
been, for the most part, as what could only be seen as, surely, an
impossible dream — these things will become your most ordinary state of
being. And yet, none of it can occur through any power that can move
through *me*.

I can guide you, and I can show you the way. And I can walk beside you
on the way that you’ve chosen. And, at times, I can give you my strength
until yours is as certain as mine, by carrying you. But ultimately, you
must *demand* that I put you down so that *your feet* touch the soil of the
Kingdom of Heaven and *you* walk, under *your* strength, *under* your
certainty, beside me. And you will, indeed, find in that day and hour
that I will as often ask you, “How do you think we could do this? What
would you like to create with me?” as you ask it of me. And then,
indeed, we are as brother and brother, sister and brother, friends,
dancing and playing in the Kingdom prepared for us of our Father.

One little shadow cast by a tiny blade of grass is all that seems to
prevent you from coming wholly to where I am. And if you tarry yet a
little longer, it’s okay. You see, you can not prevent me from knowing
the Truth about you and loving you. And when you are *in Love*, when you
are so immersed in simply loving, isn’t it true that you have no sense
of time at all? There’s no sense of effect disturbing your peace. You’re
just, what you call, “swaying to the music.” You are loving, and your
wholeness grows even more holy.

Therefore, indeed, *love one another as I have loved you*. For the Father
has first loved me that I might show you the Truth of what Love is and
the reality of your beingness. And I will not cease in doing this,
regardless of how long you choose to tarry. For Love is, indeed, patient
and kind. Love is not deluded, and Love does not allow delusion. Love
embraces all things, trusts all things, allows all things and knows
perfectly well where it’s going, and never ceases in that journey until
every blade of grass is released from casting shadows, and the whole of
Creation is returned to the Heart of God.

Learn to love your Self and cry out to this world:

> I and my Father are One! Ahh! That is the soil from which I move and
> live and have my beingness. So be it!

And always remember that the Father looked upon His only Creation and
said,

> Behold, it is very good!

And that goodness has a name and it’s your name, and your name, and your
name, and your name, and your name, and your name, and your name and my
name. And behold, it is *very good*! *That Light deserves to shine!*

And so, with that, the message of this hour is given. I believe you can
discern what it is. And yet before you stands the doorway. Will you open
it through the *power* of your choice? For what you experience will reveal
to you what choice you have made this day.

And with that, beloved and holy friends, may peace be with you always.
And may the Truth that is true always shine within your hearts and minds
throughout all ages. And remember, there’s a perfectly good reason why I
keep saying, time and again, I am with you always.

Peace, then, be unto you always.

Amen.

---

## Question One

*Question One:* If God wants only me to be happy and doesn’t require any
specific action of me, what does it mean to be the servant of God? Is
there a divine plan for action God would have us follow, or are the
actions given us based wholly upon our momentary self-perceptions? Do we
have to do things here in a particular way?

*Answer:* First, beloved friend, that is not one question. That is a host
of questions. I have said unto you many times that the Father asks only
that you be happy. And if, indeed, you are not asked to do anything,
what then, could it possibly mean to be a *servant of God*?

When you serve another, you act, you are in such a way that they receive
the joy of knowing that your full attention has been with them. To be a
*servant of the Father*, then, means that you have finally chosen to set
aside anything else that would distract your attention, and to place the
*fullness* of your attention, which is the fullness of your being, on the
Reality of the Love the Father would extend unto you. You serve God by
*receiving unceasingly* what God would offer to you.

Imagine going to work for someone who makes chocolate ice cream. And you
say unto your employer,

> What would you have me do?

And the employer smiles and says,

> I love this ice cream that I make so much that all you need to do is eat
> it. I will pay you very well, if you would just fulfill that function.

And you look at this one and you go,

> Well, I happen to like chocolate ice cream, too. And if that’s all I
> need to do, you can rest assured, you’re going to have the most loyal
> employee you could ever possibly imagine.

To serve God is not to work in the world in order to fulfill some
conception that the mind has conjured up about what it means to serve
God. It means only to drink so deeply that your cup is always
*overflowing*. There is no sense of lack and, therefore, no need to reach
*outside* one’s self to have the cup filled. And when your attention is so
devoted to the Reality of the Love that dwells within you, your cup does
begin to overflow. And as it overflows, it will seek its own way, that
is, like a river that has overflowed its banks will begin to cut new
grooves, will it not? And you can never tell, you could never bet on
which direction the new streams are going to go in. But it will bring
the sustenance of Life and of Love to all that it touches.

But those new streams will cease flowing if the main river ever forgets
its source. Therefore, you need do nothing but receive the Reality of
God’s Love for you. And, again, as you do that, it may seem in the
course of your life that you are asked to embrace some phenomenon that
is passing by, whether it be healing the shadow of one little blade of
grass within what you think is *your* conscious mind, as opposed to
everybody else’s conscious mind, to doing something that seems to be
involved with relationship in the world, whether it be feeding a hungry
child, bringing the nurturance to another through touch or through song,
planting a seed in the ground, delivering a piece of mail. It doesn’t
really matter.

As I’ve said many times, when you *truly understand* that you need do
nothing but receive the Love of God unceasingly, you will have become
that perfect servant. And then, if it arises that you’re going to be a
street sweeper, you will simply sweep the street. And you will not have
anything else in mind, save that your cup is overflowing. And others
will pass you by and they’ll say,

> This person is just a simple street sweeper, but I find myself wanting
> to walk this way to work, just to say hello. It seems to make my day.

And perhaps you’ll be asked to be the savior of the world. Only the
voice for ego would see a difference of being the savior of the world
and a street sweeper.

Therefore, strive not to know what you should do in the forms of this
world, but be you wholly dedicated to being in loving devotion, in order
to receive all that God would shower upon you: Love so grand that the
Mind can not even conceive of being without Love. And, indeed, your cup
will overflow.

Herein is the essence of the many questions disguised as the one.

---

## Question Two

*Question Two:* What is the difference between a twin flame and soul mate?
Please describe the importance of bringing two whole people to a
relationship and maintaining uniqueness while creating synergy.

*Answer:* It would not be appropriate to say that you can *create* synergy.
Nor would it be appropriate to say that you can *create* genuine
individuality. What you can create and cultivate is the willingness to
be wholly committed to *allowing* every last trace or obstacle to the
presence of Love to be dissolved from within you. Synergy and genuine
individuality arise from your devotion to being unceasingly open and
receptive to the Love of God. Like a flower bursts forth from a seed
well planted, both individuality and synergy in a *holy relationship*,
which is where only synergy can be found&hellip; these things arise from
the *receiving* of Love, the *allowing* of Love, the *remembrance* of that
Love.

What is the difference between what are called twin flames and soul
mates? First, the only difference is a matter of definition. The concept
of twin flame was given by a friend of mine as a way of assisting minds
to see that there is an aspect of them that is uniquely and profoundly
linked to something that is as much them as the self they think they are
is, that has become fragmented, that what was whole became apparently
fragmented, and, therefore, mind becomes imbalanced.

The idea was to create a story line in which the mind, so attuned to
seeking for fulfillment outside of itself, would, at least, begin to
desire that which symbolizes the movement into wholeness, the linking
together of the male and female energies within the consciousness. At
the risk, of course, that some minds would actually believe that to
discover and find one’s twin flame requires finding another personality
in a body. And yet, because in Reality that fragmentation has never
occurred, you need not go any further, in Truth, than your own
awareness, your own beingness, to discover that that one is still within
you. And you can not be separate from that one at all.

It may be that in the field of time, you, as a consciousness, will need
to have the experience of attracting one who seems to be in another
body, so that you can come together. But that is more the fruit of *your*
belief that you *are* the body than of some objective reality. For in
Reality, the Truth is one. Separation does not exist. Period.

And for soul mates? Same story. It can be appropriate to use those terms
to describe to some minds what they’re experiencing, as a way of giving
and understanding that allows them to relax and get on with it. It is
also true that within the drama of the dream of separation, there are
souls — fragments of awareness, if you will — that have danced together
and played together and have never lost the sense of union or love with,
and for, one another. And therefore, over a period of *time* and the
creation of *specialness*, those seeming two souls spark something within
one another. They recognize the Truth in the core of the other, because
they never really lost it, as they may have successfully lost it in
other relationships. And, therefore, it is . . . hmm-m . . . it
occasionally happens when two such that are on the path of awakening
require coming back together, in space and time, to spark, to re-spark
the commitment necessary to heal the sense of separation and to awaken
from the delusion that a separate self has ever existed.

This means that you are not in need of *anyone* to be whole. It also means
that when you discover that wholeness within yourself, you will be free,
if you wish, to enter into relationship with anyone you might choose,
and who would choose you. Hopefully, it will come from a place of
holiness and freedom, and not fear and specialness. For the latter leads
to pain that must yet be healed. The former leads to ongoing creativity
and enjoyment.

It is only when two who are whole come together, having looked within
and *truly understood* that *there is no lack* and, therefore, *no need*, that
the power of creativity can flow through that entity. And any such
committed relationship creates another entity, and gives birth to that
which reflects the Truth, so that it can be seen by others who abide in
space and time.

Do not attach *specialness* to the concept of twin flame or soul mate. If
anything, remember that your *soul mate* is your Creator. Everybody else
is your *friend*.

---

## Question Three

*Question Three:* How can we bring to light unconscious blocks that keep us from
manifesting our heart’s desire?

*Answer:* The answer is not as difficult as it may seem, for these blocks
are merely various forms of the *decision against peace*. Therefore, look
well and notice how you *truly feel* in any given moment, not necessarily
what you’re telling yourself. Is peace present? If it is, and something
seems to be coming into your attention, you may rest assured that the
Holy Spirit is asking you to bring the Light of Love to something that
requires healing — without asking you to identify it as your own. We
spoke of that the other evening.

You can not bring to Light what needs to be healed, since you do not
know what healing truly is. Learn to know what true healing is, and what
requires healing will present itself to you. And *true healing* is the
*decision for peace* — not the denial of *feeling*. For peace is like an
ocean that embraces all waves that may appear. One simple thing is all
you need do:

> Am I truly at peace in this moment?

If the answer is no, you need only ask,

> What is in need of healing that peace might be restored?

It will not be hidden from you. Willing to put that into practice?

*Response*: Absolutely!

*Jeshua*: Now when you make such a statement, there are those of us who
say,

> Oh, well! I’ll bring you some of my “case load.”

When there were stories written about me that said I *took on* the sins of
the world, and when you hear of masters or teachers who transmute the
sins of their students, just think of that as “karmic case loads.” And
when one says unto us,

> I’m willing to do all of this. I’m going to put this into practice —
> absolutely!

Ah, well! We’ve found a possible “employee.” You’ll never be given more
than you are capable of transmuting. And, of course, you can always quit
and look for another line of work!

Does the answer make sense to you?

*Response*: Yes, it does. Thank you.

*Jeshua*: Thank you for asking. It signals the desire for the answer.

---

## Question Four

*Question Four:* What is the interplay between playing out strong attachments,
habits, compulsions, addictions, in order to let them go with gentleness
and understanding, or using discipline and self control to end these
attachments?

*Answer:* Discipline is not a rigidity or resistance *against*. Genuine
discipline is merely a product, if you will, of the Mind. *Genuine
discipline* requires only that you bring your attention to precisely what
is true in any given moment of your experience, without judgment.
Discipline is the vigilance of awareness and the decision to *be* the
presence of Love.

The answer seems simple and short and to the point, but if you will
contemplate it, even if you will sit in your meditation and write the
answer out slowly, so that you watch the letters of the words appear on
your plain white paper, and as you give yourself permission to be
patient, not in a hurry, more will be revealed to you. And yet, the
essence has, indeed, been given. Enjoy the discipline of contemplating
the answer.

---

## Question Five

*Question Five:* There are two religious movements dear to me that I’ve seen
growing over the past twenty years. These are the Christian Pentecostal
and the New Age. How have you been an influence in their growth and
development, and how do you feel about them now? If you had the
opportunity to address these groups, what message would you desire to
communicate to them?

*Answer:* First, I’ve been instrumental because I subsidize their
marketing. [Laughter] And you laugh, but I mean that quite literally.
Hmm! There were many, there are many even in this room that would say,

> Those are two movements dear to your heart that seem rather wide apart.

And this is important because the form is always secondary. The healing
of the separation from God, melting into genuine forgiveness, the
willingness to merely let Love live where once there was a little tiny
gnat, insisting on its own ideas — this is what matters. In this way,
then, a pathway that genuinely seems to carry one to the recognition of
the Truth and, therefore, sets them free, is equal to any other path,
regardless of the “external decorations” that come with such paths.
Indeed, beloved friend, enjoy what you do of each of these paths.
Appreciate them. And walk on.

If I were to assemble everyone that represents each of the groups you’ve
recognized and stated, what would I say unto them? The same thing:

Only Love is Real.

God is but Love.

You are God’s Creation. Therefore, *your Reality is Love*.

Now go and live from your Self, that your Self might give Love to this
world.

Don’t look ahead to tomorrow. For the time spoken of is *now* for any mind
that decides that this is so.

Look not for a savior to come from the clouds. For I am with you always.
And I dwell within your heart, where, in fact, you dwell as well,
hanging out in your living room as friends having a cup of tea.

I would say unto each of them:

See not difference in one another, but see merely the distinctiveness of
a pathway through Life, in which Love can be remembered and lived.

And if that would not be sufficient for them, I would suggest that they
seek yet another path.

