---
title: "Way of the Heart - Lesson Eleven"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
---

<p class="tr_break">Now, we begin.</p>

Indeed, greetings unto you, beloved friends. Join with me in this
moment. Join with me in this hour. Join with me in the place where,
alone, two minds *can* join. For the body cannot bring you to where I am,
as it cannot bring you to where your Beloved is. Join with me, then, in
the silent place of the Heart in which all wisdom already abides. Join
with me, then, in this moment, in the place prepared for us of our
Creator, before time is.

Join with me, by choosing *now* to allow your attention to relax from the
things of the world. Allow the eyes to gently close, as a symbol of your
willingness to set aside your involvement with, and your attachment to,
the things of this created world. Join with me, by allowing the body to
be set free. This requires only that you make no demands upon it.
Indeed, let it settle in, as though it were becoming again the dust of
the ground from which it came.

Join with me, as you let your attention recede from the world around
you. Begin to notice the thoughts that seem to stream through the mind.
Join with me by moving ever yet deeper, as though you were allowing your
attention to settle down, down, into the Heart. And as the thoughts
would seem to stream through the mind, can you tell from whence they’ve
come? Can you tell where they’ve gone? They arise in a moment and fade
away in a moment, while *you* continue to relinquish your attachment to
all things of the world.

Verily I say unto you, even the thoughts that arise and stream through
the mind, ceaselessly, are of the world. Settle down, then, abiding in
the gentle quiet of the Heart. You do not cause the physical heart to
beat and send the blood through the body. It simply knows, and it does.
You do not cause the breath to flow through the body. It arises and
passes away. It does not require your attention.

And in this moment, is it you that keeps the stars in the sky above you?
Is it you that keeps your beautiful planet, your Earth, spinning,
hurtling through space, around and around your central Sun, never
deviating very much at all from the same orbit it’s been in since its
creation? Must you attend to the quiet unseen way in which the flowers
outside your window are growing? Can you hear the sound of the grass as
it grows?

Somewhere, in this very moment, a child has been birthed. Are you aware
of it? Indeed, all of Creation continues to go on, an eternal dance,
mystery giving birth to mystery, returning to mystery, without ceasing.
And yet, you simply abide in a quiet place within the sanctuary of the
Heart. Join with me now in perfect peace. Join with me where alone we
can remember that we are together. Give up all hope of directing
yourself to me by taking thought. Join with me in the simple
understanding that *of yourself you can do nothing*. Join with me by
surrendering into the Truth of a union beyond *all* comprehension. Settle
deeply into the quiet sanctuary of the Heart *we share*.

That Heart is the depth and the essence of the Creator’s *only* creation.
And that creation is Pure Mind, Pure Being, Pure Intelligence, the
fulfillment of all wisdom, the depth of all compassion, the *certainty* of
every purpose under Heaven. Rest with me, join with me, and acknowledge
that our minds are joined. And as you rest, again, you might notice that
thoughts seem to arise and pass away. But do you not sense them, now, as
though they were coming from a place where you are not, as though you
had sunk more deeply to a place of quiet beneath the surface upon which
thoughts flow back and forth without ceasing?

<!-- Track t2 -->

Are you, then, the thoughts? No, you are not. Are you even the thinker
of the thoughts? No, you are not. You are merely that quiet, and that
presence, that observes all of Creation flowing through a field of
awareness which *is* the Mind of Christ. 

Unlimited forever, are you. Unchanging forever, are you. Perfectly changeless,
are you. And we are of one substance, one Light, and one Truth. Here alone,
does reality reside. Here alone, is reality remembered. Here alone, Love reigns
supreme. Here alone, is where you are

And in this place, that is everywhere at once, and in this eternity,
that embraces every moment of time, what do we discover? What is it that
we share? It is not a body. For bodies are limited, being temporary
expressions of the coalescence of thought. It is not the body that we
can share. Look yet more deeply. Is it the thoughts that still dance
upon the surface far above you? No. What is it, then, that binds us one
to another, *as* one another? Is it not the *silence* and the *awareness* of
the *One* Who observes the arising and passing away of all created things?

I share with you the depth of a perfect silence. I share with you a
wisdom supreme. I abide *as you are* — the thought of Love in form. To be
in form does not mean to be a body. It means only that That Mind, which
is the reality of Love’s existence, truly abides within each of us
*equally*. And if this were not so, you could not recognize me. And when I
speak a word, or a sentence, or a paragraph that resonates within you as
being the Truth, you could not know it was so, if that Truth did not
already live within you as the reality of your very existence.

Remain with me now. Heed not the call of that part of the mind that
would distract you and lead you back to the illusions that comprise your
world. Here, there are no mates, no careers, no loss, no gain, no pain,
no suffering. Here alone, the Truth remains a shimmering within you.
Here is where I am. And this Heart that we share is not contained within
your body. Rather, the body has emerged from within the power that
resides in this Holy Place. It has provided for you only a temporary
learning experience. It will be there when you return, should you desire
it.

But for now, give yourself permission to rest into the Heart of all
Creation — the still and silent place of Perfect Peace. What is it that
we share, if not awareness itself? For here, if anyone were to look,
they would see there is no difference between you and myself. You are a
Shimmering Field of Awareness. And that same Shimmering Field comprises
the essence of *All* that I am.

And within this Awareness lies the answer to every question you might
choose to ask. Within this Shimmering Awareness is the reassurance that
the end of the journey is certain. Within this Shimmering Awareness do
you abide *at One* with all minds and every aspect of Creation. Join with
me here, often, in remembrance of me. For this is the secret of
communion — to relinquish the perception of the world in favor of the
acknowledgment of Reality.

<!-- Track t3 -->

Mind reaches out forever, but it reaches only to *Itself*. Therefore,
every word that I share with you is already present within you. Here,
does Love abide, alone. And there is no space for anything unlike Love.
This is why every loving thought is true, for it arises not from the
superficial or the surface level of the mind that generates thoughts
merely in reaction to other thoughts. But Love emerges from the *depth of
the heart* that transcends what you know to be your body and your mind,
your feedback mechanism.

*When you think a loving thought, you have been caressed by the touch of
God.* When you hear not loving thoughts within yourself, this can mean
only that you have returned to the surface, and have denied the depth
within you. If you would, then, hear only loving thoughts, simply
observe where your attention is, and allow it to settle deeply into this
place, beyond time, beyond the body, beyond the dream of the world. For
this place, the Kingdom of Heaven within you, is vast beyond
comprehension. The world you know, when you take your attention to the
surface of the mind, is contained within it, and embraced within this
Heart, like a dewdrop begins to be consumed by the ocean that receives
it.

Here then, beloved friends, is the place of all certainty. Here, the
place of perfect power to fulfill the loving thoughts with which your
Creator has caressed you. Here, the way to fulfill each loving vision.
Here, the source of all wisdom upon which you can draw to recreate
yourself to *be* the presence of Christ Incarnate. Here then, is the
straight and narrow path that leads unto Life. For Life is beyond every
concept you have ever heard, even those that I have used to communicate
with you. They have been like so many fingers, pointing at the moon that
shines its light gently upon you. That Light lives in the depth of a
Silent Heart. Therefore, *Silence is the doorway to Wisdom Divine*.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Remain with me here. Do not think on what you hear, but allow it to pour
through you, knowing that the vibrations of Wisdom that these words
carry will *leave their trace* upon you, without the least bit of effort
on your part. You need only be as a *lover* to the Mind of God — *opening,
allowing, receiving* — taking in that which your Creator would bestow
upon you. Remain with me in the depth of this Perfect Silence. Notice
how you begin to feel a gentle spaciousness, a peace descending upon
you, like a gentle dove — and yet, you have done nothing. And again,
should you feel your attention being pulled back to the surface of your
awareness, merely choose again, and return to the quiet of the Heart.

> I am loved; I am loving; I am lovable, forever.

Let this phrase be as a stairway that descends from the world of your
making to the depth of Perfect Peace. You need repeat it only when you
notice that you’ve become temporarily distracted by the sights and
sounds and images of the world around the body, as well as the thoughts
that seem to stream and dance along the surface of what you would call
the brain center.

> I am loved; I am loving; I am lovable, forever.

And as you come to feel grounded, rooted in, that deep and silent place,
*ask whatsoever you will* and its answer shall not be hidden from you. Ask
to witness my lifetime as I walked upon your Earth, and it will be shown
you. Ask to be shown the vibrational field in which you were conceived
in this life; it will not be hidden from you. Ask whatever you would
about a friend, who perhaps has seemed troubled of late, and the source
of what is occurring within them will be gently revealed to you. For
remember that, in this place, you are Awareness Itself, merely becoming
aware of Itself. And that Awareness, that Consciousness, lives *equally*
as the *essence of each and every one* whom you know and love. And your
love *of them* is what binds you *to them*, in the depth of a quiet
Awareness.

But as you descend the stairway to the quiet place of the Heart, there
are a few things to leave behind you: the need to be right, the need to
be supported in your illusions, the fear of rejection, abandonment,
denial, and death. Leave behind you every thought of what the world is
and what it is for. Leave behind you every thought you have ever held of
everyone and everywhere.

Surrender, relinquish the world of your perceptions, and come quietly to
kneel before your Creator. And there, in the silent place of the Heart,
unattached to whatever is given you or shown to you, *nothing* will be
kept secret. Would you know the foundations of the world? The answer is
here. Would you know how to best direct Love to a loved one? The answer
is here. And a Voice will speak to you, like one crying from the
wilderness. Pictures will be shown you, feelings enlivened within you,
and you will know that way to extend your treasure.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Remain with me here, for here do I abide. And the only difference
between us is that, occasionally, you believe that you abide somewhere
else. And when you journey up those stairs, to begin to be distracted by
the thoughts on the surface of your mind, and by the sensory feedback of
the energy field that comprises your physical creation, I remain in our
shared Heart, patiently waiting for your return.

Remain with me here.

> I am loved; I am loving; and I am lovable, forever. 
> <span class="tr_normal">This is the truth
> that sets me free.</span> I Am That I Am. My awareness knows no limitation and
> all worlds arise within me. I Am That Mind, present in all beings when
> they descend the stairway and embrace the Truth that alone is true
> always. Here, perfect peace. Here, the recognition that nothing is
> lacking. Here, the embrace of the fulfillment of the Love I have sought
> in all the wrong places. Here alone, do I abide. Here alone, do I
> remain. I Am That One, existing before all worlds. This alone, is the
> Truth about me.

These words are not mine, they are *ours*. And we share in them, equally.

> I am loved; I am loving; I am lovable, forever. I Am That I Am.

And out of the depth of that Perfect Silence, and the remembrance of
that Perfect Knowledge, there comes the impulse of a loving thought:

> Take Me into form. Take Me into space and time. Reveal Me to the world.

Your life can become, whenever you choose it to be so, merely the
process of Christ’s incarnation. Relinquish the world, even as you walk
through it. Surrender it, with every breath. Learn to cultivate the
depth of this *knowing* in the midst of all activities in which the body
is used as a temporary learning and teaching device.

Beloved friends, abide with me in this Union. And regardless of what the
eyes of the body show you, regardless of what the ears of the body hear,
regardless of the “harmless” thoughts that seem to dance across the
surface of the brain-mind, you abide where I am, *in*formed by that Love
from which there has been birthed the sun, the moon, and all of the
stars of Heaven, the planets in their orbits, and all dimensions within
our Father’s Creation. You can realize the incarnation of Christ by
coming to dwell in the Heart of Christ, until every step and every word
and every gesture flows from this deep and silent and perfect place,
until Its Voice is the only one upon which you act.

And even as the thoughts of the world stream through your brain-mind,
and even as the sensory data are received through the cellular
structures of the nervous system of the body, yet you can relinquish
these things, and act only from that depth of Perfect Wisdom, Perfect
Safety, and Perfect Peace. 

<!-- Track t6 -->

This is the month of your “Thanksgiving” as
it is called. Will it be that month in which you truly give thanks for
the Grace that sets you free? Will you honor that Grace by descending
the stairway to the quiet places of the Heart in each of your days?

> I am loved; I am loving; and I am lovable, forever. I Am That I Am.
> Infinite Awareness — birthless, deathless — That which embraces the
> dream of space and time, and looks lovingly upon all harmless and
> neutral events. And even the body is no longer mine. It merely arises
> and passes away, while I, the Creator of all Creation, inform it with
> the awareness of Perfect Forgiveness, Perfect Peace, and the fulfillment
> of Love. Yea, though I walk through the valleys of space and time, fear
> arises not within me. For all good things are in my safekeeping, stored
> where moth and dust cannot corrupt, where thieves cannot break in to
> steal. Here alone, is the treasure that I seek no longer because I have
> found!

Abide here with me, until the hour comes when you know that you will go
out no more from our Father’s Holy Place. That Place is this Depth of
Peace that abides wherever you are as the very Heart and Essence of your
reality.

> I am loved; I am loving; and I am lovable, forever.

This I give you as a divine meditation and way of prayer. Perfect it!
Live it! Drink it in! Embrace it! Devour it! Become it! For in this
*becoming* you will merely *remember* what has always been true since before
the arising of all worlds. As a bird returns to rest in its nest, as the
melting snow becomes a river that flows into the depth of a silent
ocean, as the sound, the song of a flute descends gently upon your own
ears — you — the creator of the notes -- so too be you, therefore, wise as
serpents and dissolve into this depth of the Truth of your being often,
until you abide here in every *where* and every *when*.

And when the body steps upon the Earth, and when the vocal chords are
used to form words, the touch of the foot upon the Earth will remind you
of Christ’s blessing. And the words that shape themselves will teach
only Love. Here then, beloved friend, is the essence of all that I would
extend to you in this day and in this hour.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Utilize the remainder of your time of this hour’s communication to
practice gently descending and ascending upon the Ladder of Awareness.
Give yourself permission to ascend, to notice the thoughts that stream
through the mind. Hear the sounds around you. Feel the weight of the
body in the chair where you sit, and then descend again. And abiding yet
a little while, then again choose to ascend. Listen to the sounds around
you, the beating of the physical heart. Shift the weight of the body.
Notice the thoughts that stream through the surface of the mind.
Relinquish these things, and descend again, gently ascending and
descending. For as you do so, you will join both poles together. And you
will cultivate within yourself the awareness and the spiritual power
necessary to be *in the world but not of the world*.

Can there be a greater accomplishment than this? Can there be anything
that can offer to you a greater fulfillment than to be the conduit
through which Infinite Awareness and Power flows with every breath,
every gesture, every spoken word — to reveal Christ to the world through
you? What could you ever value greater than this?

Enjoy, then, your hour. And know that when you descend to that place of
the Silent Heart within you, I will greet you and I will sit with you,
in the depth of that Silence. And our minds and our hearts and our souls
shall merge as One. And when you ascend, you take me with you. And when
you descend, you drink me into yourself, until finally there is no
difference between us. And when the world looks upon you, they will say,

> Behold, I am in the presence of something mysterious, something
> attractive, something vast and peaceful and filled with power. Surely,
> this is the Child of God!

And now, from that Mind that we share as One, I say again unto you,

May peace walk with you, and my blessings I give unto you, not as the
world gives, give I the Voice for Christ that longs to be your voice.
For the world gives and takes away, but my Love is with you forever. Let
this Love become your very own. Claim it. Own it. Taste it. Drink it.
Breathe it. Walk it. Talk it. Incarnate it!

And though I go now, to recede into Silence, yet do I walk with you on
the way that you will choose, that it might become a way that extends
the treasure of your Perfect Knowledge that you are loved, that you are
loving, and that you are lovable, forever. That you are, indeed, That
Which You Are. And you cannot be anything else! Gently touch each moment
with what you bring from what you discover in the depth of your
descension into the Heart of Christ.

Peace be with you always and light your way while yet you abide within
the world. You are, indeed, sent forth as That One who holds all power
to extend the treasure of Truth. Be you, therefore, That Which You Are —
and you *are* the stars that light the heavens and bring radiance to the
things of time.

> Go you, therefore, into all the world and bless it with the Radiance of
> the Christ within you.

And if ever you need to know where you should be, descend to that Depth.
And when you ascend, open the eyes and bless the place you are. And in
this is your purpose fulfilled.

Peace be unto you always.

Amen.

---

## Question One

*Question One:* I would like to hear Jeshua address the following issue
brought to my attention by one who does not embrace our path or beliefs.
This person quotes, “The message from Jeshua tends to privatize
spirituality and right action. One could easily forget or rationalize
away one’s responsibility to the poor and oppressed.”

*Answer:* Indeed, beloved friend, it is with great joy that we come forth
in this hour to address this specific question. For indeed, it is a
question that has been brought forth by many, many minds in many epochs.
For, you see, there is a tendency for the human mind to separate
spirituality into two camps.

There have always been those that sought to *separate* themselves from
culture, from community, from daily life, and to run off to their caves
and their monasteries, in order to seek a purely interior relationship
with God. Now, there’s nothing wrong with creating a purely interior
relationship with God, since that is the Truth of your fundamental
Reality.

However, when the mind holds the perception that it must separate itself
from what it perceives the world to be in order to discover God, that
mind is already beginning its search on a faulty premise. For this means
that one is still a victim of the world, and that the world holds a
power to separate you from awareness of Love’s presence.

Now, in the other camp, there are those who would wish to believe that
genuine spirituality means constantly being engaged in finding someone
to help or to fix. But this, itself, is also but an expression of egoic
consciousness.

> If only I can do for others, then I will validate my worthiness — not
> just to myself, not just to God, but my neighbors will see all the grand
> works that I do. So let me, indeed, rush about to feed the hungry and
> clothe the naked and house the cold. And, of course, whenever I gather
> with my friends at a cocktail party, I’ll let them know what I’ve been
> doing all week.

Each approach is founded in egoism. Now, in the latter camp, there are
those who would seek to render service to others and perceive
spirituality to require *sacrifice* of time, of energy, of money — it
doesn’t matter as long as the idea of *sacrifice* is, shall we say,
fulfilled. I want to share with you that none of these approaches is
genuinely what could be called *spirituality*.

Anyone — *anyone* — who has ever come into contact with what I teach, not just
through this, my beloved brother, but through any of the other numbers of
channels or friends through whom I am communicating with your world ... if
anyone would but read *A Course in Miracles* ... if anyone would but read the
sentences printed in red in their Holy Bibles (some of those are actually
genuinely what I taught), would be hard-pressed to overlook the most
fundamental of teachings that I’ve offered.

First, the greatest of gifts, the highest form of service that you can
give to anyone is to *assume responsibility* for your underlying sense of
separation from God and to *rectify* that mistaken perception. That is
where spirituality *must* start. For, until that is accomplished, all of
your doing in the world will be *clouded* with *egoism*. Those who strive
for peace would do well to first become established in true peace within
themselves.

Those that seek to serve the hungry would do well to nourish
themselves until they are filled, not with that which satisfies the
body, but with that which satisfies the soul. For only when the soul is
brought back into perfect alignment with its established unity with God
can the Wisdom of God inform that soul, that person, in which actions
truly serve the highest good. Without it, one will merely use ideas
learned from the world and will try to be the *maker* and the *doer* of its
service.

This is based on the assumption that one knows what their brother and
sister needs. Therefore, if you see one who is hungry and sitting on the
side of the street, saying,

> Here, give me a few shekels of coins so that I can go and eat,

...if you perceived spirituality as being a *duty* to the oppressed, the
poor, and the hungry, you would immediately look about to see what you
can do for that person, based on their request. And, more importantly,
based on what *you perceive* is amiss.

But how do you know that there is something amiss because a soul has
chosen to create a situation in which they have no job, no home and no
friends? Remember always that each mind literally creates its lived
experience in this domain. There is no such thing as victimization. And
oppression does not come from without. Oppression is a perception
created within that mind. Anyone who looks upon the history of humanity
can recognize many instances in so-called oppressive situations where
individuals have simply chosen not to be oppressed, and have moved with
freedom and with dignity, even into what appears to be death.

Therefore, beloved friend, understand this well: Relationship is the
means to your salvation. But the fundamental relationship that must be
rectified, must be nourished, must be healed, must be cultivated, is
your *direct* and *immediate union* with, and *communication* with, your
Creator. When this is established, the soul rests in perfect peace. It
has far transcended the impulse to be the doer and the maker. It looks
out upon a world completely forgiven; in your language, “let off the
hook.”

One does not look out and see a world that must be saved. One no longer
looks out and sees a world in travail. One merely becomes the servant of
the extension of Love and makes no pretense that it knows beforehand
what that should look like. But in every moment and with every breath,
that mind merely asks within,

> Father, what would you have me do this day? How might I be of service as
> your plan for the Atonement is achieved in human consciousness?

One learns to listen to that Inner Voice that might very well say,

> I want you to establish hospices in every city in the world. Begin now.

That same Voice might say to you,

> Go and sit by the park this day and forget the world. Breathe deeply of
> the Angel of Air. Let the Angels of Sound of the Running Waters fill
> your soul and heal your bodies. Nourish yourself today. Go watch a
> movie, play with your friends, read a good book, have a cup of tea.

Those that believe spirituality rests on how much service is given to
the oppressed might never hear the Voice that says,

> Include yourself in the circle of your Love.

Therefore, awakening requires that all vestiges of the world mind are
cast aside and one rests in that Perfect Truth which can *in*form perfect
action, *right action*, through you. Again, the fulcrum of what I am
sharing rests on this: Without the interiorization process of
cultivating the healing of your misperception that you’ve ever been
separate from God, without cultivating deep Self-love — not love of ego,
but love of Self — without that, the deep silence required wherein one
hears the Voice of the Comforter is never achieved. And only that voice,
the right-mindedness within you, can perfectly *in*form your actions in
the world.

Therefore, he who follows me, indeed, journeys to the desert for forty
days and forty nights, and leaves his friends and disciples and
businesses and associates to go off and be alone for prayer, for
cultivating daily the process of seeking first the Kingdom ... that
all things, including how you can be of service, might be added unto
you. Think not for yourself, but love the Self enough to surrender the
world into God’s hands. And see it not as a place that needs you to fix
it. For, of yourself, you can do nothing. "I am the vine and you are the
branches." Remember always that, without the Christ Mind dwelling within
you, that of yourself, you can do nothing. And your service, though
laudable in the eyes of the world, means nothing.

---

## Question Two

*Question Two:* I understand that the path of the poor and oppressed is their
path. However, when and how will they understand, comprehend, that they
are not victims? And how can they, too, participate in embracing
ascension? Do we have a responsibility to bring the message, help them
spiritually and physically to throw off the bonds? I feel a need to
share the Love. How is this to be done?

*Answer:* Beloved friend, when you look upon one who you would perceive as
poor, hungry or oppressed, first *pause* and look within yourself. What
part of *you* is feeling poor? What part of you perceives yourself as
hungry? Where within your own being do you feel oppressed? And then take
steps is to rectify these perceptions by healing your life of their
energies. When you look, then, upon another again, always cultivate
first the ability to see the very essence of their soul. For they are
pure consciousness, pure divinity. They are like a sunbeam to the sun,
yet given perfect free will choice. Their journey has been as long as
yours and as varied. Therefore, when you look upon them, see them in,
and held by, the Light of God.

Why is this important? It is not just mental gymnastics. For, as you see
another, you will see yourself. And as you see yourself, so, too, will
your brother come to see you. If you wish to help another be lifted up
out of their misperception that suffering is a requirement, then be you,
therefore, *committed* to being the *embodiment* of one who has awakened to
the *Truth* and *lives it*, who *breathes* it, who *acts* it, who *thinks* it, who
*talks* it without ceasing!

Now, when will they come, those that you perceive to be oppressed? And
rest assured, in any given moment, when you look upon who’s sitting by
the wall on the sidewalk with a little tin cup, saying,

> I need some money,

you need only go within and ask the Holy Spirit,

> Is it appropriate, now, for me to render any form of service to this, my
> brother or sister?

The answer will not be hidden from you.

Again, that returns us to the point of not thinking for yourself. But
turning all decision over to the one Teacher and Guide given unto you,
the bridge between the Love of the Father and the place of your soul:
the Holy Spirit. When will they arise from their slumber? Beloved
friend, when did *you* arise from *yours*? You may not remember that hour
and that day, but there was a moment from within your consciousness — it
may not even have been in this incarnation — when something *changed*, and
a decision was made not to accept limitation, not to accept the pain and
the guilt of perceiving yourself as separate from the Source of your
creation.

Therefore, know well that not you, *no one*, not even I, can force another
to arise. And no one can do it *for* another. You can, of course, listen
to the Comforter’s guidance, so that Love is extended through you
appropriately in each and every moment. And then, release yourself from
being attached to that extension, whatever it may be — whether it be a
golden coin, or a meal, or a new Mercedes. It doesn’t matter. It might
be just a gentle smile. For as you choose to extend Love, by first
abiding in the Reality that you are the *presence* of Love, having been
made in God’s image, you provide for your brother or sister the
*opportunity* to recognize the presence of Love and *decide anew* for him or
herself.

And if you’re guided to feed them, then prepare them a meal. Let them
eat it, but be not attached to the fruit of that meal. See their
essence, love them, and live *your life* in fulfillment. Far too many seek
to assist others when all it does is truly *oppress* them, because it does
not empower them to take responsibility for the choices that they have
made and the effects that have come from them.

Do not just give money indiscriminately to those that say,

> Oh, I’m broke. Do you have an extra $5?

Go within and ask,

> Am I just in my neediness to be a helper and a fixer? Can I surrender
> this and just ask Holy Spirit, “What would you have me do or say? I am
> completely unattached to my need to be of service.”

When will they arise and know ascension? When they decide to, just like
you did. And how can you extend Love? Beloved friend, *by giving that
Love first to yourself*. For, if you are not fed deeply, you cannot feed
another. Therefore, lay up for yourselves treasures which are in Heaven.
That is, cultivate higher consciousness. *Cleanse* and *purify* your
communication device, the body. Make it as *radiant* and as *beautiful* and
as *healthy* as you wish it to be. Create abundance in your own life. Feel
rich and wealthy in God’s Love, so that your cup can organically and
naturally *overflow*.

If there are two that are hungry, it is wise that one arise and learn to
feed himself. Then the Holy Spirit can use your gifts, use your power,
to assist in *genuine service* to others.

---

## Question Three

*Question Three:* Jeshua, how does one teach a young child peace and Love when
they’re acting out their fear and anger?

*Answer:* Beloved friend, this could, indeed, be a whole year’s tape
series in itself. However, for the sake of this hour, we would say this
unto you: Remember well that when you perceive a child acting out their
anger, their fear, whatever it may be, first, ask yourself: Are you sure
it’s *theirs*, just because it is being expressed where their body seems
to be? For be of assuredness, that children come into this world
sparkling clean. They are very clear — *very clear* and *very, very
sensitive*. Therefore, if there are emotions that the parents are not
dealing with within themselves, if there is lack of communication
between the parents, if there is anger that has been repressed in the
mother or the father, then indeed, *the child will know it*, and often
will begin to unconsciously act it out, since nobody else is bothering
to, shall we say, “clear the decks” and be honest. Therefore first ask
yourself: How do you know it’s their anger? Ask the Holy Spirit,

> What is the source of this?

The answer will not be hidden.

Now, how to help them? Where you perceive anger in another, first make
sure that *you* are clear of anger within yourself. Then, as you look upon
the child, remember that that child is *perfectly free now*. Ask of
yourself: Does their anger, their acting out, push your buttons? Can you
give them the space and the freedom to act out that anger, to move that
energy in a way that is healthful and helpful? Can you allow them to do
so? And convey to them that,

> This looks like fun! Maybe I’ll join you!

And start to move your body the way they’re moving their body. Make the
sounds that they are making. And tell them straight out like an adult.
Stop talking gibberish to children, for they are as old as you are the
moment they are born. Tell them in perfectly clear adult language,

> Anger is perfectly okay. Let’s get into it and see how it feels in the
> body.

Have fun with it. Make it as charged as possible. And you will find
that, in a very short moment, the anger will shift, and the children
will begin to feel a sense of play. For they will know that they have
been *accepted*, and that there is nothing wrong with them the way that
they are. Just because they don’t conform to adult perceptions does not
make them wrong.

How, then, do you teach them of peace? By being peace yourself. How,
then, do you teach them to cultivate peace? By not hiding from them your
own emotions, by living honestly — not hurtfully, but honestly.

> Yes, I’m feeling angry right now! It makes my stomach tight and my
> shoulders crinkle up into my ears. It makes my knuckles get white. And I
> just want to stamp my feet!

Well, *do it* right there in front of the child! And, as *you* start to feel
better, you can smile and say,

> See how easy it is? I think I’ll just be at peace now.

Therefore, always remember that the greatest of gifts you can give to a
child is to be the living embodiment and model of one who does not deny
or repress their humanity.

Beloved friend, each relationship is a teaching and learning
relationship. Therefore, when a child seems to be acting out their
anger, first give them the space to do it, and *observe* the child. How do
they move their body? Do they just live in their head? Or is their whole
being involved in it? What can you learn from the child?

And when the anger has subsided, *always, always, always* wrap your arms
around them, at least metaphorically. Let them know that you love them.
Let them know they’re okay. Let them know that yes you too know that
sometimes it’s a little hard to be in the world and that you thank them
for being present in your life, because you are committed to learning
*from them* as much as you are committed to *teaching them.*

Cease — everyone that could hear these words upon your planet — *cease
treating children like second class, incapable people*. *Their
consciousness is clear and bright!* Talk to them like an adult. Live like
a mature adult in your relationships with them. Give this a try, beloved
friend. There is much here for you, if you will but cultivate the
treasure within these words.

