---
title: "Way of the Heart - Lesson Twelve"
nxt: /wom/woh/woh/
prev: /wom/woh/l11/
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
---

<p class="tr_break">Now, we begin.</p>

And again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. Once again, we
come forth to abide with you. Once again, we come forth to celebrate
with you. Once again, we come to abide with the Holy Mind that *is* the
Sonship. We come to abide with our brothers and sisters, and we come *as*
brothers and sisters. And indeed, we come forth to abide in that process
whereby the Sonship is remembering Itself as the Son — something to
contemplate there. Indeed, beloved friends, I am one who comes forth in
this *particular* work, to be as the primary spokesman, through this, my
beloved brother, to share that with you which already resides within
you.

I come forth — *we* come forth — to join with you who have chosen to
answer a certain call to bring forth a creative expression that can
signify, to the world, the Truth that alone can set this world free.
Free of what? Free of *fear*, and all of the children that fear begets:
guilt, dishonesty, unworthiness, limitation, the need for suffering,
judgment, and the list goes on and on.

But ultimately, when a gardener seeks to improve the quality of the soil
from which that gardener would want his flowers to bloom forth, the
gardener seeks not to look upon the *effects* of a weed, that is, that
which is above the surface, but rather, makes haste and goes for the
root. And when the root has been pulled up, the effects of that weed can
no more be seen.

Therefore, in Truth, we come, not to improve what you would be thinking
of as the surface of the garden, the surface of the soil, but to strike
at the *root* that resides *deep within the mind*, in the depth which I have
called the *Heart*, or the *Soul*. All that we endeavor to do, then, is
designed to *uproot* the weed of fear that has made a home in the depth of
your being.

And in this past year, as you would know time, we have endeavored to share with
you what we have chosen to call *The Way of the Heart*, which has required (for
those of you that have *truly* participated in the devotion necessary to
extract the wisdom which has been offered to you)--*The Way of the Heart* has
been designed to bypass the cognitive, or thinking mind, and to strike at the
*roots of fear* that abide in the depth of the mind, and therefore resides in
a place that is, by and large, what you would call *unconscious*. *All* that we
do seeks to dissolve *that root* from the depth of your being.

We cannot do this *to* you, we can only do it *with* you. For never can
anything be forced upon the mind of the Son of God. The Holy Spirit
makes no effort to usurp, or take from you, your freedom. For in your
freedom, all power under Heaven and Earth resides. And Grace does not
descend until your Father knows that *you* are willing to prepare a place
to receive it. And this is why, in the process of healing and awakening,
it is not necessary to *seek* for Love. It is only necessary to prepare
the place, the soil, by choosing to discover the *obstacles* to Love,
which all come down to fear, and to be willing to loosen that root, that
it might be removed from the garden of your consciousness.

And then, that Rain of Grace that purifies, transforms, awakens, and
brings Christed Consciousness to the mind, can descend gently. For when
the rain falls upon hard ground, it strikes the soil and runs off, and
the garden remains barren. But the wise gardener, who has softened the
soil, who has reached in and begun to pull up the roots, to sift the
soil and make it soft and open and porous, with the intent of bringing
forth a beautiful garden, will indeed, then, be assisted by the Rain of
Grace that falls gently, without it being earned — ’tis given freely.

This year, *Drops of Grace* have been offered to you in each and every one
of your months. Some you have received; some you have not noticed. Some
are waiting to penetrate the deeper levels of your consciousness as you
continue in your *willingness* to release fear. And suddenly, a *Pearl of
Grace* that has not yet been received, will sink deep. And the
recognition will come, the awakening will come. And suddenly you will
find yourself saying,

> Wait a minute. This insight, this vision, this realization I’ve just
> had, it sounds like something that was on tape number one. Hmm, I think
> I’ll go back and listen. Yes, there it is! I wonder why I didn’t notice
> it the first time?

It is simply the natural process in which the Drops of Rain of Grace had
not yet a place to be received.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Understand then, and this is of great importance as we move into this
next year, that all that transpires from *this* point rests on how well
the gardener has cultivated the soil with the tools that have been
given. If they have not been utilized, the soil remains hard, and the
drops of rain run off and pool in the side of the garden, waiting for
the soil to be properly prepared. Of all of these, that which can
continue, and will continue, to serve you in the greatest, will be the
simple five-minute practice of *abiding as Christ*, and observing all that
you see, all that you feel, all that you think, as though a perfectly
Awakened Christ was the only One sitting in that chair.

I know that this sounds simplistic for you, but the way is easy and
without effort. Complexity is born of the world, and not from the Mind
of God. Therefore, continue well in that practice, and *allow* it to be
the foundation from which soil is prepared, the roots of fear are
loosened, even in ways that you cannot comprehend with the *thinking*
mind. For the roots of fear are not merely ideas. They are the *effects*
of ideas. They’ve been allowed to penetrate deep into what you call the
unconscious. This is why *The Way of Transformation* — which is, by the
way, the entitlement, the title, that we will give what is to be shared
during your next calendar year — it is why *The Way of Transformation*
requires not striving, but allowing; not thinking, but letting go . . .
*feeling*; not doing, but trusting.

Those roots of fear must be dissolved at a level that is deeper than the
conscious thinking mind can reach. The mind was never designed to be
your master, but to become aligned as a *servant* of the *Awakened Heart*,
just like the flower blooms and sends forth its scent for all to see,
from the depth of the soil that is unseen but has been well prepared, so
that the only roots that gather nourishment from the soil are the roots
of that which speaks of Life and beauty, not that which speaks of fear
and unworthiness.

Seek you, then, to *seek no more*. For the place is prepared for you, and
you need only go to it. Therefore, we will be cultivating more deeply
the art of *surrendering*, resting ever more deeply into that place of
silence which is the threshold to perfect Wisdom Divine. *The Way of the
Heart* is the *preparation of the soil* which allows *The Way of
Transformation* to truly occur. And transformation is not complete unless
it envelops, encompasses, and is expressed through the very life you
know, right there on your speck of dust, whirling about one sun in a
small part of one universe — your Earth, your time frame, your
relationships, your experience, your life as you know it, as you live
it, as you breathe it, as you *feel* it!

<!-- Track t3 -->

So, to many of you that are listening (and the breath is beginning to
stop), let the breath flow and realize that, with your grand
technologies, you have the freedom to go back and see if there is
anything you missed. As you do that, do it from a place of Christedness:

> I am that one choosing to enter The Way of Transformation whereby human
> consciousness, the human lived experience, becomes the living
> expression, the fruit which has sprung forth from the soil in which the
> root of Grace and of Love and of healing has been well planted.

Not from the perspective that you are doing something amiss, but out of
the *desire* to be the *master gardener*, who brings forth that fruit which
extends beauty and the scent of joy for all to be received, for all to
see, for all to marvel at.

And yet, that beauty that springs forth from the gardener’s beautiful
garden does not build up the ego of the master gardener, for a master
gardener knows that he or she has only been the keeper of the soil. But
the magic that brings forth the flower is not his or her possession, it
is merely that which you have been given stewardship over:
*consciousness*. And consciousness is the gift of Life, streaming forth
from the Mind of God. Your mind, then, is the soil of the garden. And
all awakening, and all transformation, occurs nowhere save in that
garden.

And right away, some of you are *still* seeking to understand the mind by
seeing it as something that is locked inside the shape of your skull,
and is somehow co-habitating with what you call the gray matter of the
brain. Rest assured, your mind is *unlimited* forever. And the body that
sits in the chair, in your five minute exercise, is as a drop of foam
being expressed at the slightest tip of one wave in an infinite ocean.
And that ocean is itself within the unlimited expanse of your Mind. You
are Consciousness as such — *Pure Spirit*!

The only question, then, is: Are you willing to allow that drop of foam
to be transformed into that which fully and always expresses only the
Love of God, even though that expression is still temporary because the
body has arisen in the field of time and disappears in the field of
time? Are you willing to say, “What the heck!” and allow that Love to be
as fully embodied as it is possible for it to be, for the split second
that the body is in this world?

For rest assured, to the degree that you turn your attention to
expressing mastery, which is the effect of *The Way of Transformation* in
*this* world, in *this* time, in *this* little tiny moment — to the degree
that you do that, to the degree that you use time wisely to be the
embodied Christ, rest assured that when the body drops away, and it
veils from you no longer the magnificence of the Light you are, the
Light will not be blinding to you. And you will not contract in fear.
You’ll merely let this world go, gently, and as easily as a child has
put away a toy that has been outgrown, because its usefulness is
complete. *All* that you see — the body, your relationships, your devices,
your stars and your winds and your waters — will eventually be put aside
by you, not out of denial, but simply out of recognizing that their
usefulness is over.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Indeed, beloved friends, as we then come to the completion of this one
brief year together, look well to see that no Drops of Grace have been
ignored. Open the heart ever more deeply. *Allow* those Pearls, those
Drops of Rain, of Grace, to penetrate ever more deeply, not just as
ideas in the thinking mind, but as *feelings* in the cells of the body.
Let it create for you a sweetness in the flow of breath, a sensitivity
in the way your foot rests upon the soil of the Earth with each step.
Let it begin to transform the way in which you rest your hand upon the
shoulder of your brother or sister. Allow that sweetness to permeate
your gaze as you look upon another — seeing the Christ within them that
is growing into a beautiful flower whose scent and beauty will be as a
blessing to many. For there is no one among you who is not the evolving
Christ. And remember always that what you *see* is what you *get*, in the
same way that as you teach, you learn.

Look well, then, and ask yourself this:

> Who do I know in my existence whom I have judged, and locked into a
> certain box, and I have decided that is all they are?

There you will find a fruitful meditation for the remainder of your time
until we begin that which will be called *The Way of Transformation*. In
other words, you have about thirty days to take the time, and use it
wisely, to allow the names, the images, the faces of those that you’ve
done that to, to let them come back to you, to say,

> You know, mother, father, ex-mate — whatever it is — I get it. I’ve
> placed you in a box and thrown away the key. You’re stuck, so I have
> said. And now, I release you, that I might be released.

And contemplate their image. Allow the memories of the experiences you
have shared with them to come back. If there are feelings, by all means,
let yourself *feel* them. Gaze upon them, in your mind, until you feel
that sweetness that dissolves the imprisonment into which you’ve placed
them. For as that imprisonment begins to melt, you will sense and know
that *your freedom* is blossoming.

You cannot take fear into Love. You cannot take judgment into
forgiveness. You cannot take limitation into unlimitedness. These things
must be released *at the level* in which they were first created.
Therefore, make note that this practice should not be *overlooked*. Give
yourself thirty days with the goal to truly go back and — shall we say —
mop up any forgiveness or releasing that you need yet to do. Don’t let
the mind say,

> I don’t know if I did that well enough.

For understand, it is the Comforter that releases you and the other,
through your *willingness* to allow it to occur.

Now there are some effects. This will mean that when you’ve truly done
that, never again do you have any justification or excuse for attaching
any experience you have had, any feelings you have ever felt , shall we
say, to the hook on the side of their imprisonment that you’ve placed
them in. Often, the human mind, the egoic mind, wants to hang the coat
of its judgment on the hook just outside the bars in which you have
locked someone.

> That which I have experienced is the result of my father’s alcoholism.

That which I have experienced in life is the result of my mother having
forty thousand affairs a week.

That which I have experienced is the result of my business partner who
has stolen my golden coins.

and all of the rest.

> That which has caused my suffering is the result of the position of the
> stars in the sky when I chose incarnation. If only they would have
> gotten it right, I would be okay.

It is time, fully, as we conclude this year of *The Way of the Heart* (and
to those who will be concluding it many years hence)--I say unto you, do
not enter *The Way of Transformation* until you’ve *truly* and *fully*
satisfied your awareness that you are not clinging to even the subtlest
iota of perception that, in any way, you are a victim of the world you
see. *Nothing* has been *caused by* your relationships. All of them have
merely shown you what you have already decided will be true. The world,
then, is not the cause of *anything*. You merely see what you have used
the freedom of your consciousness to concoct about yourself.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Lack is not caused by taxation. Taxation is caused by the decision to
need to believe that there is a power outside of yourself that needs all
of your energy. Government does not cause you to be subservient. Your
sense of being subservient, guilt-ridden, weak, and limited is what
births the idea of government. And then some of you, as loving brothers
and sisters, say,

> Well, I’ll play that part.

And they become your politicians that, pardon the language, create the
“pissing off” feeling that you have.

The world is *uncaused* by *anything*, save the *choices* you have made as a
free consciousness. You’ve concocted the thought, immersed yourself in
that which reflects back to you what you have already decided to
believe. This means that *The Way of Transformation* is that way in which
one becomes empowered, in every moment, to become fully responsible for
clearly deciding what they will see, and that they will not settle for
anything less. The better you get at this, the quicker it happens. Until
one reaches the point where miracles occur.

And yet, they are only miraculous to those that do not understand how
consciousness works. And you can achieve that place in which you hold
out the palm of the hand and desire the sweetest tasting apple that has
ever been created, and it will, literally, appear in the palm of your
hand. Of course, at that point, you will be well beyond any need,
whatsoever, to even hold the thought of requiring physical form.

You will begin, then, to get a sense of your mastery by being able to
look at the world you are seeing and observing clearly what’s been
changing in it, and how quickly and effortlessly that which the heart
truly desires, because it’s in alignment with the Mind of God, becomes
manifested, effortlessly. When the gap between the pure desire and the
manifested reflection of it is smaller and smaller and smaller, you will
literally sense in the feeling body that mastery is growing, and that
you are merely a Child of God playing, without ceasing, in the sandbox
of all possibilities called the Mind . . . and that there is, literally,
nothing out there that is solid, nothing out there that is unrelated to
you.

So! That’s where we’re going, if you wish to come along on the journey,
if you are willing to truly become committed to uprooting every root of
fear that has taken hold within the depth of the mind that has been
rendered *unconscious* because of your hatred of yourself. It is called
the *separation from God*. And therefore, because it has become
unconscious, it has ruled you. Time to release the un-rule-able, by
allowing that alone which can uproot the root of fear to come and take
up its rightful place within you: Christ-Mindedness.

<!-- Track t6 -->

So! You have your homework before you, then. Go within and ask,

> When that third tape came and I listened to it, but I was trying to
> watch the game of the football on the television, I wonder if I missed
> something? Hmm. When I listened to tape number seven, but was on the way
> to having the dinner date with that new body that looked so enticing to
> me, did I really sit with it and extract all of the pearls that were
> offered? Perhaps I will go back and really set aside an hour in which I
> deliberately set the world aside and — what you do when you call it, the
> <span class="tr_normal">“hanging on every word.”</span>

And yet, with a relaxed body and a soft breath and a non-grasping mind,
be you therefore like a sponge that allows the raindrops to be absorbed
into the self, and that is all. *Knowledge is not a cognitive struggle*.
It is not the arranging of ideas in some order that satisfies the
thinking mind. Knowledge is the receiving of a vibration that begins to
soften the soil of the heart and dissolves the root of fear from your
being. Knowledge is that which is the result of the transformation of
the garden that you have been given and entrusted with — the *field of
mind* that is *you*. And that mind pervades the body. It pervades the space
around you and melds and dances with other infinite webs of relationship
called other minds — energy dancing into energy, unlimited forever, out
of which all things of time are birthed and pass away.

So, you see, where I abide is everywhere at once. And so do you; you
simply don’t know it yet. I abide with an infinite array of friends who
have *realized* the Truth and have been set free. They are infinitely
creating, without ceasing, that which extends their treasure, which is
the good, the holy, and the beautiful. Many have given you images of
choirs of angels singing the praises of God. It’s the same thing.

For when extension of joy becomes free to express only the good, the
holy, and the beautiful, it is like a *vibration* of many notes, a choir
of creative consciousnesses, sparks of divinity, who abide in perfect
unlimitedness and *know* it, and ceaselessly extend their deepest bliss by
allowing the good and the holy and the beautiful to flow through them
from the infinite, mysterious, ungraspable, uncontainable Mind That Is —
God — as the sunlight of the sun creates and streams through many
sunbeams that extend out to the far reaches of your universe as light,
out of which planets are birthed, and animals and water and trees and
birds and man.

Imagine, then, that *that* is your destiny: To take up your rightful place
beside me, to join your brothers and sisters in infinite and perfect
creativity, like a harp player would ceaselessly run the fingers across
the strings, creating the most beautiful notes. And the combinations
never cease. And in every moment, you experience the fruit of the
flowers springing forth from the garden that you have well prepared to
receive the Rain of Grace — evermore, evermore, *evermore*, the good, the
holy and the beautiful flowing through your *unobstructed mind* that rests
in perfect marriage, or union, with That which is your Creator, your
Source.

Not a bad way to spend eternity! But if you look ahead, and feel that
there is a distance between where you are and where that reality is, you
will miss the opportunities required, right where you are, to practice
where you’re going by *being* it *now*. You have heard it said that a
journey of a thousand miles begins with the first step. And the
beginning is every bit as important as the end. For in the beginning,
the end is already present. *The Way of Transformation*, then, asks you to
truly become present where you are, to deliberately and consciously
cultivate, with every thought and every breath, the willingness
necessary that allows the root of fear to be dissolved, so that the
good, and the holy, and the beautiful is *all* that emanates from you,
like a beacon being sent out to creation around you.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Do not delay. Do not *waste* time. Time can, indeed, be wasted. But listen
well, for time can also waste. You have a saying we would perceive in
many of your silly little movies, where someone gets “wasted.”

> I’ll go and waste Charlie.

How many times have you been the mafia leader that has said to yourself,

> Well, I think I’ll just waste myself?

How many ways have you gone unconscious? How many ways have you numbed
your feelings? How many ways have you judged your brother or sister? How
many ways have you decided to hold onto thoughts that say,

> I could never do that. What’s the point? It’s a waste.

Oh, yes! You just put a gun to your head and pulled the trigger. You’ve
wasted *yourself* by wasting time.

*Every moment* is as a doorway through which the good, and the holy, and
the beautiful can be expressed, the cultivation of the consciousness
through which the power to do so grows. Oh, beloved friends, those
moments of your time are *very precious*! Do not look out upon the world
and go,

> Well, what the heck, it’s just the same old world.

Remember, then, as you begin to come to the completion of this year’s
*Way of the Heart*, that what you see *outside* of you is only the
reflection of what you have allowed to live *within* you. And simply ask,

> Is this what I wish to continue? What do I truly want? What is this, my
> very consciousness, for? What do I commit myself to? What do I say I
> believe? Where do I freely choose to place the power of valuation?

For what you value, you experience [snaps fingers] immediately. And the
world will bow down and say,

> Very well. You have let us know what you value. We will mirror it back
> to you, because we love you, because we’re a part of you. And heaven
> forbid that we would take away your free will.

So if you value hopelessness, the world will be a hopeless place. If you
value lack of golden coins, you will continue to see lack of golden
coins — flow of energy is all that means. If you value loneliness, you
will continue to be alone. If you value the right to be in judgment of
another, you will experience the fruit of separation.

If you value sweetness, sweetness will come. If you value *receiving* Love
— listen to this carefully — if you value *receiving* Love, the world will
begin to show up at your doorstep in completely different embodiments.
Different vibrations, different thought patterns will be mirrored back
to you that let you receive Love. For nothing can be received until the
place is prepared for it to enter. And you can only *give* what you have
been *willing* to *receive*. If you receive a drop of water into your glass,
that is all that you can give to another. But he that receives all,
gives all. And he that gives all, receives tenfold more.

<!-- Track t8 -->

So, it has been a good year. And we have watched with great amusement,
at times, but always great compassion, and always perfect patience, and
*always* perfect Love. We have called out to you across space and time,
and if you have heard the call, the connection, the relationship with us
is *already* established. There is, then, no bridge to cross, merely the
willingness to receive what is true:

> Jeshua is available for me always. Mary is available for me always.

The one you would call as my friend, as Germain, is available for you
always. The entire family, lineage, of masters that have sought through
time to create a frequency and a vibration that can dissolve the effects
of the negative thinking that you have extended out of your mind, that
creates like the smoke and the veil around you — to dissolve that — *all
of us are available to you, and our number is legion*!

Rest assured, you are not alone. And in any moment, you need only call
upon me, and I am with you. *And I do not come alone!* For some of you,
then, we would highly suggest that in those moments when you feel like
you need a little help, when fear seems to be coming up but you know you
must go ahead, whether it be to spend golden coins to go visit some
teacher, whether it be to tithe to some church, whatever it be, whatever
you think you’re fearing, simply say:

> Legions of angels and masters and friends, whose number is infinite
> beyond comprehension, you who are sent directly of God to assist me over
> the ditch, come now, because I declare it and I receive it. And
> therefore it IS!

And then take the step that is necessary to take. It will not be your
imagination. *We will be with you.* And the perfect end is *certain*. Fear
is nothing more than the illusion you have chosen to value in order to
experience what it’s like to feel separate from Love. That’s all. You
merely waved your cosmic magic wand and said,

> Let there be fear so I can experience it.

That’s all.

We love you. Beyond your present comprehension, *we love you*. Beyond *all*
comprehension, even at what you might perceive to be our level of
functioning, is the presence of God’s Love, which we seek to merely pour
forth to you, that by *giving*, we continually *receive*. You see, the Laws
of Consciousness work for us just like they work for you! We’re just
more aware of them, that’s all.

<!-- Track t9 -->

That Love which God Is is *incomprehensible forever*! The Sunbeam can
never comprehend the Sun. *I am* a Sunbeam to that Sun. *You* are a Sunbeam
to that Sun. *We* are therefore made of One Substance, and that Substance
alone sustains us throughout eternity. And the greatest of joys is to
*surrender* fully into allowing That Light to light your way without
ceasing.

And she that releases the world, embraces the Creator. And he that
releases fear, remembers Love. She that embodies forgiveness, lives at
peace. And he that relinquishes control, knows perfect trust. And that
Awakened Christ that has surrendered the knot of fear, called “I,” rests
in unlimitedness forever, in perfect communion with all of Creation. And
that union *never ceases*. It merely expands and extends as Life comes
forth, Creation comes forth, extending the good, the holy, and the
beautiful.

A flower that blooms in the spring for a day is the good, the holy, and
the beautiful. The bird that alights upon your fence and sings its
morning song has come forth from that infinite perfect Sun, and its
notes extend the joy of the Son of God. The smile upon one of your
brothers and sisters, who has received a Pearl of Grace through you, is
Creation Itself and is the *presencing* of the good, the holy, and the
beautiful. The rays of sunlight that dance upon the oceans of this
world, creatively sing forth the good, the holy and the beautiful. Every
loving thought that you allow to be cultivated in the garden of your own
mind extends the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful*.

Therefore, sing that song without ceasing. And be willing, as we close
this year, to celebrate your willingness to *embrace*, with perfect
deliberateness, *your* creativity and the power *you* have, the dominion
over that which is planted in the soil of your mind. Prepare that soil
well as you complete this year, that the Pearls of Grace might bring you
into *The Way of Transformation*.

And with that, beloved friends, by the time you hear this you will have
celebrated your birth date as those sunbeams which are expressed through
these stories of the birth of Christ into the world. Seeming that it
occurred two thousand years ago? For *me*. Is it not time now for *you* to
let that same birthing be fully completed in *you*?

Therefore, we bring this message to a close, for now. Know that it has
been our honor and our joy to abide with you. And there is a whole host
of beings encircling you every moment you remember that you have chosen
to answer a call that can be traced to the very Mind of God, Who has
reached out to call His Creation, *you*, back to Himself, so that you can
deliberately extend Love without ceasing.

Yes, we will have that which is called the question/answer period. But
for now, we bid you peace. We give you Love. We hold you with perfect
patience, knowing the Truth that is true, alone, about you. And *we will
never leave you*.

Peace, then, be unto you always.

Amen.

---

## Question One

*Question One:* On the day of your crucifixion, it was told that you spoke the
words, “Father, why hast Thou forsaken me?”

Can you elaborate on that? Will you?

*Answer:* That is always the proper question. First, I have, indeed, given
forth this answer to a certain one that you’re aware of. We would highly
suggest that you merely obtain that answer, for it was not given to be
kept and held in privacy. Now, we would amend it by saying that I’ve
felt guilty about that statement ever since. [Laughter]

Beloved friend, if I have not touched every kernel of humanity and the
experience of it that you have known, it is useless for you to listen to
me. And I have nothing to offer you. Therefore, to have come into your
world and to have, shall we say, made myself impervious to doubt, pain,
guilt, tears, anger, you name it — yes, even lust — to have done that
would have rendered my relationship with you *meaningless*.

That is what we’ll give as an amendment, a clarification, a driving home
a very important point that can then be amended or added to the answer
that you will extract, that has already been given. Does that make sense
for you?

It is a very good question, but in the end, bring it around a little
further and ask of *yourself*,

> Why have I said, “Father, why have you forsaken me?”

Something to be pondered.

---

## Question Two

*Question Two:* There seem to be many, many women who tap into memories and
experiences of being Mary Magdalene. Can you talk about that, or the
fragmentation of that one soul?

*Answer:* Beloved friend, we would suggest here there are many in what you
call the male body that also hold secretly that very same thing, a
little more deeply, because they would perceive that it would truly be
seen or perceived as insanity.

> Well, since I only have this kind of apparatus ...

what you call the plumbing and that which helps to — in the procreation
process of the body,

> since it is of a certain type, surely I could not possibly have ever
> known incarnation in any other kind of form. So, if I say to another “I
> believe I’ve tapped into being — having been — Mary, the one that you
> speak of,” but then I would certainly be laughed at. Because, after all,
> my chest has too much hair on it. But no, I don’t believe I’m just the
> body!

[Laughter]

Now, what occurs? In the beginning, Mind is One. You — we speak to all
"yous" — were That Mind. A dream was dreamt in which fragmentation seems
to have occurred. In that fragmentation, it is as though many individual
Points of Light, Souls, Sparks of Divinity, call yourself whatever you
want, call yourself a Burp in the Mind of God ... it doesn’t matter.
That is the *result* of the dream of separation, which, in Reality, never
occurred.

It does rather boggle the mind — thank God for that! In that process,
many worlds have been birthed, and continue to be birthed, by Mind as It
perceives Itself as fragmented. In one tiny, tiny, tiny speck of dust or
speck of Light, a world was birthed that you call the Earth, and all
life forms with it. And in that tiny speck, a time frame was evolved or
created in which human bodies were given names. And minds believe
themselves to be, much as you still do yet today, that you are somehow
something other than the one who sits apart or across from you, just
because there’s a body that creates the perception that there’s a
distance from you.

One such very temporary illusory fragmentation is That One known as Mary
of Magdalene, Mary of Magdala. Within that dream, one emerged known as
Jeshua ben Joseph. And in the process of that expression of that dream,
these two, shall we say, looked upon each other and went,

> Oh, my goodness! How sweet it is!

That is, as souls, as yet still parts of that dream — it’s not that
we’re from someplace higher than you. We’re all in it together, since
Mind is One.

In that dream, there was relationship, 2,000 years ago in embodied form,
between two Sparks of the same Mind, manifesting as individualized
consciousness. One is called Jeshua, one is called Mary. And a rather
nice friendship evolved in which one seemed to serve as the teacher and
the savior, and the healer of the other, who then, in turn, served as
supporter, healer and awakener of the other.

Now here’s the point: That individualized focus of Light lives within
*everyone*. How could it be other than that? Just as I, as an
individualized aspect of the dream, *abide wholly in everyone*. You, again
speaking to all of you, could not begin to recognize me as Jeshua ben
Joseph, that individualized Spark of Divinity that somehow got its
“stuff” cleared up enough to remember the Truth and let it shine
through -- you could not know me or remember me, if I was not you. It
takes *One* to recognize *One*.

So when you approach the question of Mary Magdalene from the perspective
that there is something separate from yourself to begin with, you’ll end
up with all kinds of fantastic perceptions and philosophies. Now, within
the dream, That One, who’s really you, experienced a process of healing
and awakening, a transformation, a healing of the heart, experienced
relationship with me and many others, experienced passion and sensuality
— what you call the little sparks that excite the cells. When This One
died — and death is an illusion — that crystallized contraction of
energy has, in itself, never incarnated again.

However, it has — in a sense, you could perceive it this way — extended
or radiated aspects or strands of Light of its own being that have made
a home in other individualized body-minds. And therefore, in the process
of healing and awakening, This One needs to be looked upon as a *symbol*
of an aspect of the part of consciousness that is awakening within
yourself — that part that can recognize and love Christ and take Christ
into its arms, *your* arms, and embrace it as the *Beloved*.

It is time to release the insane perception that there is a separate
you, distinct from all other "yous", that has incarnated over and over
again. We talk this way because a teacher must have a form of language
that the student can understand. But the point is to lead *beyond* that
language and understanding, to release the attachment and the value that
has been placed on an *individualized past*. And to anyone who feels that
they *must* have been Mary: You’re not special. Do not make the egoic
mistake of claiming That One as yourself, in order to feel *special* or
*closer* to God.

Your value is not found in the past. It is not found in who you *were*,
but in who you are choosing to be *now*. And if your name is Fred or Ralph
or Hazel, it doesn’t matter. For Hazel can be just as Christed as Mary
ever was. And indeed, Hazel *must* become Christed in order to be free.

It is the egoic mind that looks to the *past*. It is the egoic mind that
*requires specialness*. It is the egoic mind that simply refuses to let
you, so to speak, settle in to be Hazel, or Fred, or George, or
Anastasia. These are merely sounds floating in the ethers that designate
a temporary aspect of Christ’s incarnation. So you’re beginning to see,
then, why there can be so many "Marys." Some are sincerely tapping into
that aspect of the One Mind. Some need to create the illusion that they
were That One because they refuse to heal the holes in their bucket
where they are, and seek to reach back and find that energy in another
and make it their own. It is called *special relationship*.

Look well, then, and see:

> Is there anything lingering in me which needs to reach out to grab
> another part of myself in some ancient past so that I can finally feel I
> have some measure of worthiness?

The only thing that defines your worthiness is how well you are choosing
to be the embodiment of Christed Consciousness *now*.

This is why I once taught, and continue to teach, that belief in
reincarnation is not necessary for awakening. And if you think it is,
you may rest assured that, if there’s anything unhealed from the past,
it is with you now. Learn to look only to how you are *now*. For there you
will discover the effects of what was not healed in what you perceive to
be the past.

You need not go to the great Akashic Record Library and research
yourself on the cosmic microfiche of the world in order to discover who
you *were*, so that you will understand why you’re such a schmuck now.

[Laughter]

> There, I finally got it! Whew! Ah, that explains everything.

As you down yet another beer. You are creating your schmuckness nowhere
but right now. So, will you be the princess of schmuckdom? Or will you
don the cloak of one who assumes complete responsibility for creating
their experience?

To those that seem to feel an affection for the "Johns", and the "Marys",
and the "Peters", the "Judases", notice that it’s coming up in your
consciousness so that you can make the decision to love that expression
of the dream and see the Christedness that is its essence. Bring it into
yourself. Love it. Let it go. Let it be assimilated to that which you
are.

Therefore, for all of you, then, to contemplate, especially if you’re
feeling some affection or attraction or identification with this Mary,
why not stop keeping Her at arm’s length and, in your meditation, ask
yourself,

> What are the qualities of That One that make me feel so affectionate
> toward Her? What is it in Her that I desire to have within myself?

And bring those qualities in. Again, as though you were a sponge. Make
them part of your being. Overcome the fragmentation that has occurred in
the dream of separation. Does that make sense for you?

Now, I know that what I’ve just shared might give a few a bit of a start
when they hear these words. If it does, it only means that they’re yet
needing to perceive themselves as having some *special* form of
relationship that somehow got lost in an ancient past. No. It is not
lost. And they must take another step and realize that they have to
start doing the work, if that is what it is perceived to be, of getting
on with what has not been completed here and now.

> Am I embodying Christed Consciousness?

Yes or no.

> What steps do I need to take to do that?

That’s all there ever is.

That should suffice for now. The only other alternative, of course, is
to remain in the kingdom of schmuckness.

---

## Question Three

*Question Three:* You had mentioned you’re coming through 2,003, or so, other
people. And there have been several people out there claiming to have
channeled St. Germain. And we have been told by Jonah that nobody does
channel St. Germain. They only receive thought forms. So the question
is: Are there people out there who are authentically channeling our
mutual friend, St. Germain?

*Answer:* You’re asking what is called a technological, philosophical
question. You are doing what is called the “mincing of words.” It is the
*effect* that matters.

We would suggest here for you that This One, my friend who was once my —
almost my — executioner . . . that, indeed, is symbolic for you. For who
do *you* perceive as your *executioner*? That One communicates with many.
For That One has long since learned to assume responsibility for those
assigned to Him. That One does communicate through thought forms to a
*multitude* of beings. That One, by the way, still pops in and manifests a
body whenever He wishes — just to spend a few moments on a park bench
with an old friend. This One lives in complete unlimitedness.

Therefore, to the degree that those minds receiving This One’s thought
forms are continually at work keeping their garden well-cultivated and
free of egoism do, indeed, reflect very accurately that which This One
would seek to transmit. As you would understand that which you are
calling channeling, in which This One’s consciousness blends with the
temporarily-crystallized form that you call a certain individual, in
order to speak through the mind, the mental field, the language
structure of that one to others, This One, my friend, does indeed do
that, from time to time. But as you would perceive it, the number of
those through whom that effective blending is occurring is very, very
small. We would say that you could count the number as less than the
fingers on two hands.

But there are a multitude who receive This One’s thought forms, and a
multitude who do a very, very good job of transmitting those thought
pictures, those images, those thoughts, into a language that conveys His
message to those in your world. Does that help you in that regard?

*Response*: Much.

*Jeshua*: Always what matters is this: Anyone who serves as what your
world is now referring to as a *channel* has the very same work in front
of them, constantly, that anyone does — the work of constant
self-cultivation, surrender, allowing, trusting, letting go, letting go
of egoic consciousness, letting go of need for specialness, staying in
observation of how one is truly being. Surrendering, surrendering,
surrendering.

> I’m not the maker and the doer.

I’m not the one who knows anything.

I need nothing from anyone.

Who do I need to let off the hook?

How deeply can I master forgiveness?

And all of the rest. That is primary. And, in fact, the relationship,
such as the one between my beloved brother and myself, is one that
accentuates the need for that one to practice these things.

We would also say here that it is possible, and Germain is one of these
who can overcome the impediments within the consciousness of another to
get their thought form well planted, well received. So it’s kind of a
mutual thing. The channel must always be involved in the same work that
everyone’s involved in, because *everyone is a channel*. And nothing is
manifested through them, save the frequencies that they are allowing to
make a home in their mind ... those that channel my beloved friend, as
you would call Him, as St. Germain ... although, where we abide,
sometimes we joke about the “saint” part of that. Now, those that are
channeling Him, then, are no different than you. They need to keep doing
their own inner work. Their goal should not be to rest, but to
continually desire to be the embodiment of Christ Itself. Not to rest on
their laurels, so to speak.

At the same time, rest assured that we are capable of ensuring that the
purity of that vibration be maintained. Because, when it isn’t, we
simply pull away. If egoic consciousness begins to take root in any
channel, we simply, shall we say, “put it on a shelf” and wait until
later. And it is only *you* who can discern whether what is being spoken
is flowing from us or is merely the repetition of a record that has
already been implanted in that one. Then they’ve reached a certain limit
of their own growth and we have departed. And you are well aware of
that. It is a vibration that you sense, even in the cellular structure
of the body.

Does that help you in regard to that question?

*Response*: Yes. Thank you.

*Jeshua*: Indeed. So have you any other questions?

*Response*: No.

*Jeshua*: Rest assured, unto you we would say that, in the weeks to come,
a multitude of questions you did not know exist will come into the
surface of the consciousness.

*Response*: I’m sure.

*Jeshua*: For only one reason: so that you can embrace them with the
answers that you already know. And, thereby, be freed of the past.

*Response*: Amen.

*Jeshua*: Very well then, as you have spoken: Amen.

