---
chapter: Fourteen
ctitle: Bringing Illusions to Truth
title: The Shift to Miracles
ref: T14.5
---

When no perception stands between God and His creations, or between His
Children and their own, the knowledge of creation must continue forever.
The reflections which you accept into the mirror of your minds in time
but bring eternity nearer or farther. But eternity itself is beyond ALL
time. Reach out of time and touch it, with the help of its reflection in
you. And you will turn from time to holiness as surely as the reflection
of holiness calls everyone to lay
all guilt aside. Reflect the peace of Heaven HERE, and bring this world
to Heaven. For the reflection of truth draws everyone TO truth, and as
they enter into it they leave all reflections behind.

In Heaven reality is shared, and not reflected. By sharing its
reflection here, its truth becomes the only perception the Son of God
accepts. And thus, remembrance of his Father dawns on him, and he can no
longer be satisfied with anything but his own reality. You on earth have
no conception of limitlessness, for the world you seem to live in IS a
world of limits. In this world, it is not true that anything without
order of difficulty can occur. The miracle, therefore, has a unique
function, and is motivated by a unique Teacher, Who brings the laws of
another world to this one. The miracle is the ONE thing you can do that
transcends order, being based not on differences, but on equality.

Miracles are not in competition, and the number of them that you can do
is limitless. They can be simultaneous and legion. This is not difficult
to understand, once you conceive of them as possible at all. What IS
more difficult to grasp is the lack of order of difficulty which stamps
the miracle as something that must come from elsewhere, not from here.
From the world’s viewpoint, this is impossible. You have experienced
lack of competition among your thoughts, which, even though they may
conflict, can occur to you together and in great numbers. You are so
used to this that it can cause you little surprise.

Yet you are also used to classifying some of your thoughts as more
important, larger or better, wiser or more productive and valuable than
others. And this is true about the thoughts which cross the mind of
those who think they live apart. For some are reflections of Heaven,
while others are motivated by the ego, which but SEEMS to think. The
result is a weaving, changing pattern which never rests, and is never
still. It shifts unceasingly across the mirror of your mind, and the
reflections of Heaven last but a moment, and grow dim as darkness blots
them out. Where there was light darkness removes it in an instant, and
alternating patterns of light and darkness sweep constantly across your
minds.

The little sanity which still remains is held together by a sense of
order which YOU establish. Yet the very fact that you can DO this
and bring ANY order into chaos shows you that you are not an ego, and
that more than an ego MUST be in you. For the ego IS chaos, and if it
were all of you no order at all would be possible. Yet though the order
which you impose upon your minds limits the ego, it ALSO limits YOU. To
order is to judge, and to arrange BY judgement. It will seem difficult
for you to learn that you have no basis AT ALL for ordering your
thoughts. This lesson the Holy Spirit teaches by giving you shining
examples to show you that your way of ordering is wrong, but that a
better way is offered you.

The miracle offers exactly the same response to every call for help. It
does not judge the call. It merely recognizes what it IS, and answers
accordingly. It does not consider which call is louder or greater or
more important. You may wonder how you who are still bound to judgement
can be asked to do that which requires no judgement of your own. The
answer is very simple. The power of God, and NOT of you, engenders
miracles. The miracle itself is but the witness that you have the power
of God in you. That is the reason why the miracle gives equal blessing to
all who share in it, and that is also why EVERYONE shares in it. The
power of God is limitless. And being always maximal, it offers
EVERYTHING to EVERY call from ANYONE. There IS no order of difficulty
here. A call for help is given help.

The only judgement involved at all is the Holy Spirit’s ONE division
into two categories; one of love, and the other the call for love. YOU
cannot safely make this division, for you are much too confused either
to recognize love, or to believe that everything else is nothing but a
need for love. You are too bound to form, and not to content. What you
consider content is not content at all. It is merely form, and nothing
else. For you do not respond to what a brother REALLY offers you, but
only to the particular perception of his offering by which the ego
judges it.

The ego is incapable of understanding content, and is totally
unconcerned with it. To the ego, if the form is acceptable the content
MUST be. Otherwise, it will attack the form. You who believe you
understand something of the dynamics of the mind, let me assure you that
you know nothing of it at all. For of yourselves you COULD not know of
it. The study of the ego is NOT the study of the mind.

In fact, the ego enjoys the study of itself, and thoroughly approves the
undertakings of students who would analyze it, approving its importance.
Yet they but study form with meaningless content. For their teacher is
senseless, though careful to conceal this fact behind a lot of words
which sound impressive, but which lack any consistent sense when they
are put TOGETHER.

This is characteristic of the ego’s judgements. Separately, they seem to
hold, but put them together, and the system of thought which arises from
joining them is incoherent and utterly chaotic. For form is not enough
for meaning, and the underlying lack of content makes a cohesive system
impossible. Separation therefore remains the ego’s chosen condition. For
no-one alone can judge the ego truly. Yet when two or more JOIN TOGETHER
in searching for truth, the ego can no longer defend its lack of
content. The fact of union TELLS them it is not true.

It is impossible to remember God in secret and alone. For remembering
Him means you are NOT alone, and willing to remember it. Take no thought
for yourself, for no thought you hold IS for yourself. If you would
remember your Father, let the Holy Spirit order your thoughts, and give
only the answer with which He answers you. Everyone seeks for love as
you do, and knows it not unless he joins with you in seeking it. If you
undertake the search together, you bring with you a light so powerful
that what you see is GIVEN meaning. The lonely journey fails because it
has excluded what it would FIND.

As God communicates to the Holy Spirit in you, so does the Holy Spirit
translate His communications THROUGH you so YOU can understand them. God
has no secret communications, for everything of Him is perfectly open,
and freely accessible to all, being FOR all. Nothing lives in secret,
and what you would hide from the Holy Spirit is nothing. Every
interpretation YOU would lay upon a brother is senseless. Let the Holy
Spirit SHOW him to you, and teach you both his love and need for love.
Neither his mind NOR YOURS holds more than these two orders of thought.

The miracle is the recognition that this is true. Where there is love,
your brother must give it to you because of what it IS. But where there
is NEED for love, YOU must give it because of what
YOU are. Long ago we said this course will teach you what you are,
restoring to you your identity. We have already learned that this
identity is shared. The miracle becomes the MEANS of sharing it. By
supplying your identity wherever it is NOT recognized, YOU will
recognize it. And God Himself, Who wills to be with His Son forever,
will bless each recognition of His Son with all the love He holds for
him. Nor will the power of ALL His Love be absent from any miracle you
offer to His Son. How, then, can there be any order of difficulty among
them?

