---
chapter: Fourteen
ctitle: Bringing Illusions to Truth
title: Bringing Illusions to Truth
ref: T14.0
---

Unless you are guiltless you cannot know God, Whose Will is that
you know Him. Therefore, you MUST be guiltless. Yet if you do not accept
the necessary conditions for knowing Him you have denied Him, and do not
recognize Him, though He is all around you. He cannot be known without
His Son, whose guiltlessness is the condition for knowing Him. Accepting
His Son as guilty is denial of the Father so complete that knowledge is
swept away from recognition in the very mind where God Himself has
placed it. If you would but listen, and learn how impossible this is! Do
not endow Him with attributes You understand. You made Him not and
anything you understand is not of Him.

Your task is not to make reality. It is here without your making, but
not without YOU. You who have thrown your selves away and valued God so
little, hear me speak for Him and for yourselves. You cannot understand
how much your Father loves you, for there is no parallel in your
experience of the world to help you understand it. There is nothing on
earth with which it can compare, and nothing you have ever felt, apart
from Him, that resembles it ever so faintly. You cannot even give a
blessing in perfect gentleness. Would you know of One Who gives forever,
and Who knows of nothing EXCEPT giving?

The Children of Heaven live in the light of the blessing of their
Father, because they KNOW that they are sinless. The Atonement was
established as the means of restoring guiltlessness to the mind which
has denied it, and thus denied Heaven to Itself. Atonement teaches you
the true condition of the Son of God. It does not teach you what you
are, or what your Father is. The Holy Spirit, Who remembers this for
you, merely teaches you how to remove the blocks that stand between you
and what you know. His memory is YOURS. If you remember what YOU have
made, you are remembering nothing. Remembrance of reality is in Him, and
THEREFORE in you.

