---
chapter: Fourteen
ctitle: Bringing Illusions to Truth
title: Out of the Darkness
ref: T14.2
---

The journey that we undertake together is the exchange of dark for
light, of ignorance for understanding. Nothing you understand is
fearful. It is only in darkness and in ignorance that you perceive the
frightening, and you shrink away from it to further darkness. And yet it
is only the hidden that can terrify, not for what it IS, but for its
hiddenness. The obscure is frightening BECAUSE you do not understand its
meaning. If you did, it would be clear and you would be no longer in the
dark. Nothing has HIDDEN value, for what is hidden cannot be shared, and
so its value is unknown. The hidden is KEPT APART, but value always lies
in joint appreciation. What is concealed cannot be loved, and so it MUST
be feared.

The quiet light in which the Holy Spirit dwells within you is merely
perfect openness, in which nothing is hidden, and therefore nothing is
fearful. Attack will ALWAYS yield to love if it is BROUGHT to love, not
hidden FROM it. There is no darkness that
the light of love will not dispel, unless it is concealed from love’s
beneficence. What is kept APART from love cannot share its healing power
because it has been separated off and kept in darkness. The sentinels of
darkness watch over it carefully, and you who made these guardians of
illusion out of nothing are now afraid of them.

Would you CONTINUE to give imagined power to these strange ideas of
safety? They are neither safe nor unsafe. They do not protect; neither
do they attack. They do nothing at all, BEING nothing at all. As
guardians of darkness and of ignorance, look to them only for fear, for
what they keep obscure IS fearful. But let them go, and what was fearful
will be so no longer. Without protection of obscurity ONLY the light of
love remains, for only this HAS meaning and CAN live in light.
Everything else MUST disappear.

Death yields to life simply because destruction is not TRUE. The light
of guiltlessness shines guilt away because, when they are brought
TOGETHER, the truth of one MUST make the falsity of its opposite
perfectly clear. Keep not guilt and guiltlessness apart, for your belief
that you can have them BOTH is meaningless. All you have done by keeping
them apart is lose their meaning by confusing them with each other. And
so you do not realize that only one means anything, and the other is
wholly without sense of ANY kind.

You have interpreted the separation as a means which you have made for
breaking your communication with your Father. The Holy Spirit
re-interprets it as a means of re-establishing what has not been broken
but HAS been made obscure. All things you made have use to Him, for His
most holy purpose. He KNOWS you are not separate from God, but He
perceives much in your mind that lets you THINK you are. All this, and
nothing else, would He separate from you. The power of decision, which
you made IN PLACE of the power of creation, He would teach you how to
use on your BEHALF. You who made it to crucify yourselves must learn of
Him how to apply it to the holy cause of restoration.

You who speak in dark and devious symbols do not understand the language
you have made. It HAS no meaning, for its purpose is not communication,
but rather, the DISRUPTION of communication. If the purpose of language
IS communication, how can this tongue mean anything? Yet even this
strange and twisted effort to communicate
through NOT communicating holds enough of love to MAKE it meaningful, if
its interpreter is NOT its maker. You who made it are but expressing
conflict, from which the Holy Spirit would release you. Leave what you
would communicate to Him. He will interpret it to you with perfect
clarity, for He knows with Whom you ARE in perfect communication.

You know not what you say, and so you know not what is said to you. Yet
your Interpreter perceives the meaning in your alien language. He will
not attempt to communicate the meaningless. But He WILL separate out all
that has meaning, dropping off the rest and offering your true
communication to those who would communicate as truly with you. You
speak two languages at once, and this MUST lead to unintelligibility.
Yet if one means nothing and the other everything, only that one is
possible for purposes of communication. The other but INTERFERES with
it.

The Holy Spirit’s function is ENTIRELY communication. He therefore must
remove whatever interferes with it in order to RESTORE it. Therefore,
keep no source of interference from His sight, for He will not attack
your sentinels. But bring them to Him, and let His gentleness teach you
that, in the light, they are not fearful, and CANNOT serve to guard the
dark doors behind which nothing at all is carefully concealed. We must
open all doors and let the light come streaming through. There are no
hidden chambers in God’s temple. Its gates are open wide to greet His
Son. No-one can fail to come where God has called him if he close not
the door himself upon his Father’s welcome.

