---
chapter: Fourteen
ctitle: Bringing Illusions to Truth
title: Perception without Deceit
ref: T14.3
---

What do you WANT? Light or darkness, knowledge or ignorance are yours,
but not both. Opposites must be brought together, and not kept apart.
For their separation is only in your mind, and they are reconciled by
union as YOU are. In union, everything that is not real MUST disappear,
for truth IS union. As darkness disappears in light, so ignorance fades
away when knowledge dawns. Perception is the medium by which ignorance
is brought to knowledge. Yet the perception must be without deceit, for
otherwise it becomes the messenger of ignorance rather than a helper in
the search for truth.

The search for truth is but the honest searching out of everything that
interferes with truth. Truth IS. It can be neither lost nor sought nor
found. It is there, wherever YOU are, being WITHIN you. Yet it CAN be
recognized or unrecognized, real or false to YOU. If you hide it, it
becomes unreal to you BECAUSE you hid it and surrounded it with fear.
Under each cornerstone of fear on which you have erected your insane
system of belief the truth lies hidden. Yet you cannot know this, for by
hiding truth in fear you see no reason to believe the MORE you look at
fear the LESS you see it, and the clearer what it CONCEALS becomes.

It is not possible to convince the unknowing that they know. From their
point of view, it is not true. Yet it IS true because GOD knows it.
These are clearly opposite viewpoints of what the “unknowing” are. To
God unknowing is impossible. It is therefore not a point of view at all,
but merely a belief in something that does not exist. It is only this
belief that the unknowing have, and by it they are wrong about
themselves. They have DEFINED themselves as they were not created. Their
creation was not a point of view, but rather a certainty. Uncertainty
brought to certainty does not retain ANY conviction of reality.

You must have noticed that the emphasis has been on bringing what is
undesirable TO the desirable; what you do NOT want to what you DO. You
will realize that salvation must come to you this way if you consider
what dissociation is. Dissociation is a distorted process of thinking
whereby two systems of belief which cannot coexist are both MAINTAINED.
It has BEEN recognized that, if they were brought TOGETHER, their joint
acceptance would become impossible. But if one is kept in darkness from
the other, their SEPARATION seems to keep them both alive, and equal in
their reality. Their joining thus becomes the source of fear, for if
they meet, acceptance MUST be withdrawn from one of them.

You CANNOT have them both, for each denies the other. Apart, this fact
is lost from sight, for each in a SEPARATE place can be endowed with
firm belief. Bring them TOGETHER, and the fact of their complete
incompatibility is instantly apparent. One will go BECAUSE the other is
seen in the same place. Light cannot enter darkness when a mind believes
in darkness, and will not LET it go.

Truth does not struggle against ignorance, and love does not attack
fear. What needs no protection does not defend itself. Defense is of
YOUR making. God knows it not. The Holy Spirit uses defenses on BEHALF
of truth only because you made them AGAINST it. His perception of them,
according to His purpose, merely changes them into a call FOR what you
have ATTACKED with them.

Defenses, like everything you made, must be gently turned to your own
good, translated by the Holy Spirit from means of self-destruction to
means of preservation and release. His task is mighty, but the power of
God is with Him. Therefore, to Him, it is so easy that it was
accomplished the instant it was given Him for you. Do not delay
yourselves in your return to peace by wondering how He can fulfill what
God has given Him to do. Leave that to Him Who knows. You are not asked
to do mighty tasks yourself. You are merely asked to do the little He
suggests you do, trusting Him only to the small extent of believing
that, if He asks it, you CAN do it. You will SEE how easily all that He
asks can be accomplished.

The Holy Spirit asks of you but this; bring to Him every secret you have
locked away from Him. Open every door to Him, and bid Him enter the
darkness and lighten it away. At your request He enters gladly. He
brings the light to darkness if you make the darkness OPEN to Him. But
what you hide He cannot look upon. For He sees for YOU, and unless you
look WITH Him He cannot see. The vision of Christ is not for Him alone,
but for Him with YOU. Bring, therefore, all your dark and secret
thoughts to Him, and look upon them WITH Him. He holds the light, and
you the darkness. They CANNOT coexist when both of you together look on
them. His judgement MUST prevail, and He will GIVE it to you as you join
your perception to His. Joining with Him in seeing is the way in which
you learn to share with Him the interpretation of perception that leads
to knowledge.

You cannot see alone. Sharing perception with Him Whom God has given you
teaches you how to RECOGNIZE what you see. It is the recognition that
nothing you see means ANYTHING alone. Seeing with Him will show you that
all meaning, including YOURS, comes not from double vision, but from the
gentle fusing of everything into ONE meaning, ONE emotion and ONE
purpose.

God has One Purpose which He shares with you. The single vision which
the Holy Spirit offers you will bring this Oneness to your mind with
clarity and brightness so intense you could not wish, for all the world,
not to accept what God would have you have. Behold your will, accepting
it as His, with all His Love as yours. All honor to you through Him, and
through Him unto God.

In the darkness you have obscured the glory God gave you, and the power
He bestowed upon His guiltless Son. All this lies hidden in every
darkened place shrouded in guilt, and in the dark denial of innocence.
Behind the dark doors which you have closed lies nothing, because
nothing CAN obscure the gift of God. It is the closing of the doors that
interferes with recognition of the power of God that shines in you.
Banish not power from your mind, but let all that would hide your glory
be brought to the judgement of the Holy Spirit, and there undone. Whom He
would save for glory IS saved for it. He has promised the Father that
through Him you would be released from littleness to glory. To what He
promised God He is wholly faithful, for He shared with God the promise
that was given Him to share with YOU.

He shares it still, for YOU. Everything that promises otherwise, great
or small, however much or little valued, He will replace with the ONE
promise given unto Him to lay upon the altar to your Father and His Son.
No altar stands to God WITHOUT His Son. And nothing brought there that
is not equally worthy of both but will be replaced by gifts wholly
acceptable to Father AND to Son. Can you offer guilt to God? You cannot,
then, offer it to His Son. For they are not apart, and gifts to one ARE
offered to the other.

You know not God because you know not this. And yet you DO know God and
ALSO this. All this is safe within you, where the Holy Spirit shines. He
shines not in division, but in the meeting place where God, united with
His Son, speaks to His Son through Him. Communication between what
cannot be divided CANNOT cease. The holy meeting place of the
unseparated Father and His Son lies in the Holy Spirit and in YOU. All
interference in the communication that God Himself wills with His Son is
quite impossible here. Unbroken and uninterrupted love flows constantly
between the Father and the Son, as BOTH would have it be. And so it IS.

Let your minds wander not through darkened corridors, away from light’s
center. You may choose to lead yourselves astray, but you can only be
brought TOGETHER by the Guide appointed for you. He will surely lead you
to where God and His Son await your recognition. They are joined in
giving you the gift of oneness, before which ALL separation vanishes.
Unite with what you ARE. You CANNOT join with anything except reality.
God’s glory and His Son’s belong to you in truth. They HAVE no opposite,
and nothing else CAN you bestow upon yourselves.

There is no substitute for truth. And truth will make this plain to you
as you are brought into the place where you must MEET with truth. And
there you must be led, through gentle understanding which can lead you
nowhere else. Where God is, there are YOU. Such IS the truth. Nothing
can change the knowledge given you by God into unknowingness. Everything
God created knows its Creator. For this is how creation is accomplished
by the Creator and by His creations. In the holy meeting place are
joined the Father and His creations, and the creations of His Son with
Them together. There is one link which joins them all together, holding
them in the Oneness out of which creation happens.

The link with which the Father joins Himself to those He gives the power
to create like Him can NEVER be dissolved. Heaven itself is union with
all of creation, and with its One Creator. And Heaven remains the Will
of God for you. Lay no gifts other than this upon your altars, for
nothing can coexist beside it. Here your meager offerings are brought
together with the gift of God, and only what is worthy of the Father
will be accepted by the Son, for whom it was intended. To whom God gives
Himself He IS given. Your little gifts will vanish on the altar where He
has placed His Own.

