---
chapter: Fourteen
ctitle: Bringing Illusions to Truth
title: Guilt and Guiltlessness
ref: T14.1
---

The guiltless and the guilty are totally incapable of understanding one
another. Each perceives the other as like himself, making them unable to
communicate because each sees the other UNLIKE the way he sees HIMSELF.
God can communicate ONLY to the Holy Spirit in your mind because only He
shares the knowledge of what you are with God. And only the Holy Spirit
can ANSWER God for you, for only He knows what God IS. Everything else
that you have placed within your mind CANNOT exist, for what is not in
communication with the Mind of God has never been. Communication with
God is life. Nothing without it IS at all.

The only part of your mind that has reality is the part which links you
still with God. Would you have ALL of it transformed into a radiant
message of God’s Love, to share with all the lonely ones who denied Him
with you? GOD MAKES THIS POSSIBLE. Would you deny His yearning to be
known? You yearn for Him as He for you. This is forever changeless.
Accept, then, the immutable. Leave the world of death behind, and return
quietly to Heaven. There is NOTHING of value here, and EVERYTHING of
value there. Listen to the Holy Spirit, and to God through Him. He
speaks of you to YOU. There IS no guilt in you, for God is blessed in
His Son as the Son is blessed in Him.

Each one of you has a special part to play in the Atonement, but the
message given to each to share is always the same; GOD’S SON IS
GUILTLESS. Each one teaches the message differently, and learns it
differently. Yet until he teaches it and learns it, he will suffer the
pain of dim awareness that his true function remains unfulfilled in him.

The burden of guilt is heavy, but God would not have you bound by it.
His plan for your awaking is as perfect as yours is fallible. You know
not what you do, but He Who knows is with you. His gentleness is yours,
and all the love you share with God He holds in trust for you. He would
teach you nothing except how to be happy.

Blessed Son of a wholly blessing Father, joy was created for YOU. Who
can condemn whom God has blessed? There is nothing in the Mind of God
that does not share his shining innocence. Creation is the natural
extension of perfect purity. Your only calling here is to devote
yourself, with active willingness, to the denial of guilt in ALL its
forms. To accuse is NOT TO UNDERSTAND. The happy learners of the
Atonement become the teachers of the innocence that is the right of all
that God created. Deny them not what is their due, for you will not
withhold it from them alone.

The inheritance of the Kingdom is the right of God’s Son, given him in
his creation. Do not try to steal it from him, or you will ASK for guilt
and WILL experience it. Protect his purity from every thought that would
steal it away and keep it from his sight. Bring innocence to light, in
answer to the call of the Atonement. Never allow purity to remain
hidden, but shine away the heavy veils of guilt within which the Son of
God has hidden himself from his own sight. We are all joined in the
Atonement here, and nothing else can unite us in this world. So will the
world of separation slip away, and full communication be restored
between the Father and the Son.

The miracle acknowledges the guiltlessness which MUST have been denied
to produce NEED of healing. Do not withhold this glad acknowledgment,
for hope of happiness and release from suffering of every kind lie in
it. Who is there but wishes to be free of pain? He may not yet have
learned HOW to exchange his guilt for innocence, nor realize that only
in this exchange can freedom from pain be his. Yet those who have failed
to learn need TEACHING, NOT attack. To attack those who have need of
teaching is to fail to learn from them.

Teachers of innocence, each in his own way, have joined together, taking
their part in the unified curriculum of the Atonement. There is no unity
of learning goals apart from this. There is no conflict in this
curriculum, which has ONE aim however it is taught. Each effort made on
its behalf is offered for the single
purpose of RELEASE from guilt, to the eternal glory of God and His
creation. And every teaching that points to this points straight to
Heaven, and to the peace of God. There is no pain, no trial, no fear
that teaching this can fail to overcome. The power of God Himself
supports this teaching, and GUARANTEES its limitless results.

Join your own efforts to the power that CANNOT fail and MUST result in
peace. No-one can be untouched by teaching such as this. You will not
see yourself beyond the power of God if you teach only this. You will not
be exempt from the effects of this most holy lesson, which seeks but to
restore what is the right of God’s creation. From everyone whom you
accord release from guilt you will inevitably learn YOUR innocence. The
circle of Atonement HAS no end. And you will find ever-increasing
confidence in your safe inclusion in what is for all in everyone you
bring within its safety and its perfect peace.

Peace, then, be unto everyone who becomes a teacher of peace. For peace
is the acknowledgment of perfect purity from which no-one is excluded.
Within its holy circle is everyone whom God created as His Son. Joy is
its unifying attribute, with no-one left outside to suffer guilt
alone. The power of God draws everyone to its safe embrace of love and
union. Stand quietly within this circle, and attract all tortured minds
to join with you in the safety of its peace and holiness. Abide with me
within it, as teachers of Atonement, NOT of guilt.

Blessed are you who teach with me. Our power comes not of us, but of our
Father. In guiltlessness we know Him, as He knows us guiltless. I stand
within the circle, calling you to peace. Teach peace with me, and stand
with me on holy ground. Remember for everyone your Father’s power that
He has given him. Believe not that you cannot teach His perfect peace.
Stand not outside, but join with me within. Fail not the only purpose to
which my teaching calls you. Restore to God His Son as He created him by
teaching him his innocence.

The crucifixion has no part in the Atonement. Only the resurrection
became my part in it. That is the symbol of the release from guilt by
guiltlessness. Whom you perceive as guilty you would crucify. Yet you
RESTORE guiltlessness to whomever you see as
guiltless. Crucifixion is ALWAYS the ego’s aim. It sees AS GUILTY, and
by its condemnation it would kill. The Holy Spirit sees only
guiltlessness, and in His gentleness He would release from fear, and
re-establish the reign of love. The power of love is in His gentleness,
which is of God and therefore cannot crucify nor suffer crucifixion. The
temple you restore becomes YOUR altar, for it was re-built through you.
And everything you give to God IS yours. Thus He creates, and thus must
YOU restore.

Each one you see you place within the holy circle of Atonement or leave
outside, judging him fit for crucifixion or for redemption. If you bring
him INTO the circle of purity, you will rest there with him. If you
leave him WITHOUT, you join him there. Judge not except in quietness
which is not of you. Refuse to accept anyone as WITHOUT the blessing of
Atonement, and bring him INTO it by blessing him. Holiness must be
shared, for therein lies everything that makes it holy. Come gladly to
the holy circle, and look out in peace on all who think they are
outside. Cast no-one out, for this is what he seeks along with you.
Come, let us join him in the holy place of peace, which is for all of
us, united as one within the Cause of peace.

