---
chapter: Twenty
ctitle: The Promise of the Resurrection
title: Entering the Ark
ref: T20.4
---

Nothing can hurt you unless you give it the power to do so. For you give
power as the laws of this world interpret giving; as you give you LOSE.
It is not up to you to give power at all. Power is of God, given by Him,
and re-awakened by the Holy Spirit,Who knows that as you give you GAIN.
He gives no power to sin, and therefore it HAS none; nor to its results
as this world sees them, – sickness and death and misery and pain. These
things have not occurred because the Holy Spirit sees them not, and
gives no power to their seeming source. Thus would He keep you free of
them. Being without illusion of what you are, the Holy Spirit merely
gives everything to God, Who has already given and received all that is
true. The untrue He has neither received NOR given.

Sin has no place in Heaven, where its results are alien, and can no more
enter than can their source. And therein lies your need to see your
brother sinless. In him is Heaven. See sin in him instead, and Heaven is
lost to you. But see him as he is, and what is yours shines from him to
you. Your Savior gives you only love, but what you would RECEIVE of him
is up to you. It lies in him to overlook all your mistakes, and therein
lies his OWN salvation. And so it is with yours. It is the re-awakening
of the laws of God in minds that have established other laws, and given
them power to enforce what God created not.

YOUR insane laws were made to guarantee that you would make mistakes,
and give them power over you by accepting their results as your just
due. What could this be but madness? And is it this that you would see
within your Savior from insanity? He is as free from this as you are,
and in the freedom that you see in him, you see your own. For this you
SHARE. What God has given follows His laws, and His alone. Nor is it
possible for those who follow them to suffer the results of any other
source.

Those who choose freedom will experience only its results. Their power
is of God, and they will give it only to what God has given, to share
with them. Nothing but this can touch them, for they see only this,
sharing their power according to the Will of God. And thus their freedom
is established and maintained. It is upheld through all temptation to
imprison and to be imprisoned. It is of them who learned of freedom that
you should ask what freedom is. Ask not the sparrow how the eagle soars,
for those with little wings have not accepted for themselves the power
to share with you.

The sinless give as they received. See, then, the power of sinlessness
within your brother, and share with him the power of the release from
sin you offered him. To each who walks this earth in seeming solitude is
a Savior given, whose special function here is to release him, and so to
free himself. In the world of separation each is appointed separately,
though they are all the same. Yet those who KNOW that they are all the
same need not salvation. And each one finds his Savior when he is ready
to look upon the face of Christ, and see Him sinless.

The plan is not of you, nor need you be concerned with anything
except the part that has been given you to learn. For He Who knows the
rest will see to it without your help. But think not that He does not
need your part to help Him with the rest. For in your part lies ALL of
it, without which is no part complete, nor is the whole completed
without your part. The ark of peace is entered two by two, yet the
beginning of another world goes with them. Each holy relationship must
enter here, to learn its special function in the Holy Spirit’s plan, now
that it shares His purpose. And as this purpose is fulfilled, a new
world rises in which sin can enter not, and where the Son of God can
enter without fear, and where he rests a while, to forget imprisonment
and to remember freedom. How can he enter, to rest and to remember,
without YOU? Except you be there, he is not complete. And it is his
completion that he remembers there.

This is the purpose given you. Think not that your forgiveness of each
other serves but you two alone. For the whole new world rests in the
hands of every two who enter here to rest. And as they rest, the face of
Christ shines on them, and they remember the laws of God, forgetting all
the rest, and yearning only to have His laws perfectly fulfilled in them
and all their brothers. Think you when this has been achieved that you
will rest WITHOUT them? You could no more leave one of them outside than
I could leave you and forget part of myself.

You may wonder how you can be at peace when, while you are in time,
there is so much that must be done before the way to peace is open.
Perhaps this seems impossible to you. But ask yourself if it is possible
that God would have a plan for your salvation that does NOT work. Once
you accept His plan as the one function that you would fulfill, there
will be nothing else the Holy Spirit will not arrange for you WITHOUT
your effort.

He will go before you making straight your path, and leaving in your way
no stones to trip on, and no obstacles to bar your way. Nothing you need
will be denied you. Not one seeming difficulty but will melt away before
you reach it. You need take thought for nothing, careless of everything
except the only purpose that you would fulfill. As that was given you,
so will its fulfillment be. God’s guarantee will hold against all
obstacles, for it rests on certainty and not contingency. It rests on
YOU. And what can be more certain than a Son of God?

