---
chapter: Twenty
ctitle: The Promise of the Resurrection
title: Heralds of Eternity
ref: T20.5
---

In this world, God’s Son comes closest to himself in a holy
relationship. There he begins to find the certainty his Father has in
him. And there he finds his function of restoring his Father’s laws to
what was held outside them, and finding what was lost. Only in time can
ANYTHING be lost, and NEVER lost forever. So do the parts of God’s Son
gradually join in time, and with each joining is the end of time brought
nearer. Each miracle of joining is a mighty herald of eternity. No-one
who has a single purpose, unified and sure, can be afraid. No-one who
shares his purpose with him can NOT be one with him.

Each herald of eternity sings of the end of sin and fear. Each speaks in
time of what is far beyond it. Two voices raised together call to the
hearts of everyone, and let them beat as one. And in that single heart
beat is the unity of love proclaimed and given welcome. Peace to your
holy relationship, which has the power to hold the unity of the Son of
God together. You give to one another for everyone, and in your gift is
everyone made glad. Forget not Who has given you the gifts you give, and
through your not forgetting this will you remember Who gave the gifts to
Him to give to you.

It is impossible to overestimate your brother’s value. Only the ego does
this, but all IT means is that it wants the other for itself, and
therefore values him too LITTLE. What is inestimable clearly cannot BE
evaluated. Do you recognize the fear that rises from the meaningless
attempt to judge what lies so far beyond your judgement you cannot even
see it? Judge not what is invisible to you or you will NEVER see it, but
wait in patience for its coming. It will be given you to see your
brother’s worth when all you want for him is peace. And what you want
for him you will receive.

How can you estimate the worth of him who offers peace to you? What
would you WANT except his offering? His worth has been established by
his Father, and you will recognize it as you receive his Father’s gift
through him. What is in him will shine so brightly in your grateful
vision that you will merely love him, and be glad. You will not think to
judge him, for who would see the face of Christ and yet insist that
judgement still has meaning? For this insistence is of those who do NOT
see. Vision or judgement is your choice, but never both of these.

Your brother’s body is as little use to you as it is to him. When it
is used only as the Holy Spirit teaches it HAS no function, for minds
need not the body to communicate. The sight that sees the body has no
use which serves the purpose of a holy relationship. And while you look
upon each other thus, the means and end have not been brought in line.
Why should it take so many holy instants to let this be accomplished,
when one would do? There IS but one. The little breath of eternity that
runs through time like golden light is all the same; nothing before it,
nothing afterwards.

YOU look upon each holy instant as a different point in time. IT never
changes. All that it ever held, or will ever hold, is here right NOW.
The past takes nothing from it, and the future will add no more. Here,
then, is everything. Here is the loveliness of your relationship, with
means and end in perfect harmony ALREADY. Here is the perfect faith that
you will one day offer to each other ALREADY offered you. And here the
limitless forgiveness you will give each other ALREADY given; the face
of Christ you yet will look upon ALREADY seen.

Can you evaluate the giver of a gift like this? Would you exchange this
gift for any other? This gift returns the laws of God to your
remembrance. And merely by remembering them, the laws that held you
prisoner to pain and death MUST be forgotten. This is no gift your
brother’s body offers you. The veil that hides the gift hides him as
well. He IS the gift, and yet he knows it not. No more do you. And yet,
have faith that He Who sees the gift in both of you will offer and
receive it for you both. And through His vision will you see it, and
through His understanding recognize it and love it as your own.

Be comforted, and feel the Holy Spirit watching over you in love and
perfect confidence in what He sees. He KNOWS the Son of God, and shares
his Father’s certainty the universe rests in his gentle hands in safety
and in peace. Let us consider now what he must learn, to share his
Father’s confidence in him. What is he, that the Creator of the universe
should offer it to him, and know it rests in safety? He looks upon
himself not as his Father knows him. And yet it is impossible the
confidence of God should be misplaced.

