---
chapter: Twenty
ctitle: The Promise of the Resurrection
title: The Vision of Sinlessness
ref: T20.8
---

Vision will come to you at first in glimpses, but they will be enough to
show you what is given you who see your brother sinless. Truth is
restored to you through your desire, as it was lost to you through your
desire for something else. Open the holy place which you closed off by
valuing the “something else”, and what was never lost will quietly
return. It has been saved for you. Vision would not be necessary had
judgement not been made. Desire now its whole undoing, and it is done
for you.

Do you not WANT to know your own identity? Would you not happily
exchange your doubts for certainty? Would you not willingly be free of
misery, and learn again of joy? Your holy relationship offers
all this to you. As it was given you, so will be its effects. And as its
holy purpose was not made by you, the means by which its happy end is
yours is also not of you. Rejoice in what is yours but for the asking,
and think not that you need make either means or end. All this is given
you who would but see your brother sinless. All this is given, waiting
on your desire but to receive it. Vision is freely given to those who ask
to see.

Your brother’s sinlessness is given you in shining light, to look on
with the Holy Spirit’s vision, and to rejoice in along with Him. For
peace will come to all who ask for it with real desire and sincerity of
purpose, shared with the Holy Spirit and at one with Him on what
salvation IS. Be willing, then, to see your brother sinless, that Christ
may rise before your vision and give you joy. And place no value on your
brother’s body, which holds him to illusions of what he is. It is HIS
desire to see his sinlessness, as it is YOURS. And bless the Son of God
in your relationship, nor see in him what you have made of him.

The Holy Spirit guarantees that what God willed and gave you shall be
yours. This is your purpose now, and the vision that makes it yours is
ready to be given. You have the vision which enables each one to see the
body not. And as you look upon each other, you will see an altar to your
Father, holy as Heaven, glowing with radiant purity and sparkling with
the shining lilies you laid upon it. What can you value more than this?
Why do you think the body is a better home, a safer shelter for God’s
Son? Why would you rather look on it than on the truth? How can the
engine of destruction be PREFERRED, and chosen to replace the holy home
the Holy Spirit offers, where He will dwell with you?

The body is the sign of weakness, vulnerability and loss of power. Can
such a savior HELP you? Would you turn in your distress and need for
help unto the helpless? Is the pitifully little the perfect choice to
call upon for strength? Judgement WILL seem to make your Savior weak. Yet
it is YOU who need his strength. There is no problem, no event or
situation, no perplexity that vision will not solve. All is redeemed
when looked upon with vision. For this is not YOUR sight, and brings
with it the laws beloved of Him Whose sight it IS.

Everything looked upon with vision falls gently into place,
according to the laws brought to it by His calm and certain sight. The
end for everything He looks upon is always sure. For it will meet His
purpose, seen in unadjusted form, and suited perfectly to meet it.
Destructiveness becomes benign, and sin is turned to blessing under His
gentle gaze. What can the body’s eyes perceive, with power to CORRECT?
Its eyes ADJUST to sin, unable to overlook it in any form, and seeing it
everywhere, in everything. Look through its eyes, and everything will
stand condemned before you. All that could save you, you will never see.
Your holy relationship, the source of your salvation, will be deprived
of meaning, and its most holy purpose bereft of means for its
accomplishment.

Judgement is but a toy, a whim, the senseless means to play the idle
game of death in your imagination. But vision sets all things right,
bringing them gently within the kindly sway of Heaven’s laws. What if
you recognized this world is a hallucination? What if you really
understood you made it up? What if you realized that those who seem to
walk about in it, to sin and die, attack and murder and destroy
themselves, are wholly unreal? Could you have faith in what you see, if
you ACCEPTED this? And would you SEE it?

Hallucinations disappear when they are recognized for what they ARE.
This is the healing and the remedy. Believe them not and they are gone.
And all you need to do is recognize YOU did this. Once you accept this
simple fact, and take unto yourself the power you gave them, YOU are
released from them. One thing is sure; hallucinations serve a purpose,
and when that purpose is no longer held, they disappear. Therefore, the
question never is whether you want THEM, but always, do you want the
purpose which they serve? This world seems to hold out many purposes,
each different and with different values. Yet they are all the same.
Again there is no order, but a seeming hierarchy of values.

Only two purposes are possible. And one is sin, the other holiness.
Nothing is in between, and which you choose determines what you see. For
what you see is merely how you elect to meet your goal. Hallucinations
serve to meet the goal of madness. They are the means by which the
outside world, projected from within, adjusts to sin and seems to
witness to its reality. It still is true that nothing is without. Yet
upon nothing are ALL projections made. For it is the projection which
gives the “nothing” all the meaning that it holds.

What has no meaning cannot BE perceived. And meaning always looks within
to find itself, and THEN looks out. All meaning that you give the world
outside must thus reflect the sight you saw within; or better, if you
saw at all or merely judged against. Vision is the means by which the
Holy Spirit translates your nightmares into happy dreams; your wild
hallucinations that show you all the fearful outcomes of imagined sin,
into the calm and reassuring sights with which He would replace them.
These gentle sights and sounds are looked on happily, and heard with
joy. They are His substitutes for all the terrifying sights and screaming
sounds the ego’s purpose brought to your horrified awareness. They step
away from sin, reminding you that it is not reality which frightens you,
and that the errors which you made can be corrected.

When you have looked on what seemed terrifying, and seen it change to
sights of loveliness and peace; when you have looked on scenes of
violence and death, and watched them change to quiet views of gardens
under open skies, with clear, life-giving water running happily beside
them in dancing brooks that never waste away; who need persuade you to
accept the gift of vision? And after vision, who is there who could
refuse what MUST come after? Think but an instant just on this; you can
behold the holiness God gave His Son. And never need you think that
there is something else for you to see.

