---
chapter: Twenty
ctitle: The Promise of the Resurrection
title: Holy Week
ref: T20.1
---

This week begins with palms and ends with lilies, the white and holy
sign the Son of God is innocent. Let no dark sign of crucifixion
intervene between the journey and its purpose; between the acceptance of
the truth and its expression. This week we celebrate life, not death.
And we honor the perfect purity of the Son of God, and not his sins.
Offer each other the gift of lilies, not the crown of thorns; the gift
of love and not the “gift” of fear. You stand beside each other, thorns
in one hand and lilies in the other, uncertain which to give. Join now
with me and throw away the thorns, offering the lilies to replace them.
This Easter, I would have the gift of your forgiveness offered by you to
me, and returned by me to you.

We CANNOT be united in crucifixion and in death. Nor can the
resurrection be complete till your forgiveness rests on Christ along
with mine. A week is short, and yet this holy week is the symbol of the
whole journey the Son of God has undertaken. He started with the sign of
victory, the promise of the resurrection, already given him. Let him not
wander into the temptation of crucifixion, and delay him there. Help him
to go in peace beyond it, with the light of his own innocence lighting
his way to his redemption and release. Hold him not back with thorns and
nails, when his redemption is so near. But let the whiteness of your
shining gift of lilies speed him on his way to resurrection.

If you see glimpses of the face of Christ behind the veil, looking
between the snow white petals of the lilies you have received and given
as your gift, you will behold each other’s face and RECOGNIZE it. I was
a stranger and you took me in, not knowing who I was. Yet for your gift
of lilies you WILL know. In your forgiveness of this stranger, alien to
you and yet your ancient Friend, lie his release and your redemption
with him. The time of Easter is a time of joy, and not of mourning. Look
on your risen Friend, and celebrate his holiness along with me. For
Easter is the time of YOUR salvation, along with mine.

