---
chapter: Twenty
ctitle: The Promise of the Resurrection
title: Sin as an Adjustment
ref: T20.3
---

The belief in sin is an ADJUSTMENT. And an adjustment is a CHANGE; a
shift in perception, or a belief that what was so before has been made
different. Every adjustment is therefore a distortion, and calls upon
defenses to uphold it against reality. Knowledge requires NO adjustment,
and, in fact, is lost if any shift or change is undertaken. For this
reduces it at once to mere perception; a way of LOOKING in which
certainty is lost, and doubt has entered. To this impaired condition ARE
adjustments necessary, because they are not true. Who need adjust to
truth, which calls on only what he is, to understand?

Adjustments of any kind are of the ego. For it is the ego’s fixed belief
that all relationships DEPEND upon adjustments to make of them what it
would have them be. Direct relationships, in which there are no
interferences, are ALWAYS seen as dangerous. The ego is the
self-appointed mediator of all relationships, making whatever
adjustments it deems necessary, and interposing them between those who
would meet, to keep them separate and prevent their union. It is this
studied interference which makes it difficult for you to
recognize your holy relationship for what it is.

The holy do not interfere with truth. They are not afraid of it, for it
is within the truth they recognized their holiness, and rejoiced at what
they saw. They looked on it directly, without attempting to adjust
themselves to it, or it to them. And so they saw that it was IN them,
not deciding first where they would HAVE it be. Their looking merely
asked a question, and it was what they SAW that answered them. YOU make
the world and THEN adjust to it, and it to you. Nor is there any
difference between yourself and it in your perception, which made them
BOTH.

A simple question yet remains, and needs an answer. Do you LIKE what you
have made? – a world of murder and attack, through which you thread your
timid way through constant dangers, alone and frightened, hoping at most
that death will wait a little longer before it overtakes you and you
disappear? YOU MADE THIS UP. It is a picture of what you think YOU are;
of how you see YOURSELF. A murderer IS frightened, and those who kill
FEAR death. All these are but the fearful thoughts of those who would
adjust themselves to a world made fearful by their adjustments. And they
look out in sorrow from what is sad within, and see the sadness THERE.

Have you not wondered what the world is REALLY like; how it would look
through HAPPY eyes? The world you see is but a judgement on yourself. It
is not there at all. Yet judgement lays a sentence on it, justifies it,
and makes it REAL. Such is the world you see; a judgement on yourself,
and made by YOU. This sickly picture of yourself is carefully preserved
by the ego, whose image it is and which it loves, and placed outside you
in the world. And to this world must you adjust, as long as you believe
this picture is outside, and has you at its mercy. This world IS
merciless, and were it outside you, you should indeed be fearful. Yet it
was you who MADE it merciless, and now if mercilessness seems to look
back at you, it can be CORRECTED.

Who in a holy relationship can long remain unholy? The world the holy
see is one with them, just as the world the ego looks upon is like
itself. The world the holy see is beautiful because they see their
innocence in it. They did not tell it what it was; they did not make
adjustments to fit their orders. They gently questioned it and
whispered, “What are you?” And He Who watches over all
perception answered. Take not the judgement of the world as answer to the
question, “What am I?”

The world BELIEVES in sin, but the belief that made it as you see it is
not outside you. Seek not to make the Son of God ADJUST to his insanity.
There IS a stranger in him, who wandered carelessly into the home of
truth, and who will wander off. He came without a purpose, but he will
not remain before the shining light the Holy Spirit offered, and you
accepted. For there the stranger is made homeless and YOU are welcome.

Ask not this transient stranger, “What am I?” He is the only thing in
all the universe that does not know. Yet it is he you asked, and it is
to his answer that you would adjust. This one wild thought, fierce in
its arrogance, and yet so tiny and so meaningless it slips unnoticed
through the universe of truth, becomes your guide. To it you turn to ask
the meaning of the universe. And of the one blind thing in all the
seeing universe of truth you ask, “How shall I look upon the Son of
God?”

Does one ask judgement of what is totally BEREFT of judgement? And if
you have, would you BELIEVE the answer, and adjust to it as if it were
the truth? The world you look on is the answer that it gave you, and YOU
have given it power to adjust the world to MAKE its answer true. You
asked this puff of madness for the meaning of your unholy relationship,
and adjusted it according to its insane answer. How happy did it make
you? Did you meet with joy, to bless the Son of God, and give him thanks
for all the happiness which he held out to you? Did you recognize each
other as the eternal gift of God to you? Did you see the holiness that
shone in both of you, to bless the other? That is the purpose of your
HOLY relationship. Ask not the means of its attainment of the one thing
that still would have it be unholy. Give it NO power to adjust the means
and end.

Prisoners bound with heavy chains for years, starved and emaciated, weak
and exhausted, and with eyes so long cast down in darkness they remember
not the light, do not leap up in joy the instant they are made free. It
takes a while for them to understand what freedom IS. You groped but
feebly in the dust and found each other’s hand, uncertain whether to let
it go, or to take hold on life so
long forgotten. Strengthen your hold, and raise your eyes unto your
strong companion, in whom the meaning of your freedom lies. He seemed to
be crucified beside you. And yet his holiness remained untouched and
perfect, and with him beside you, you shall this day enter with him to
Paradise, and know the peace of God.

Such is my will for both of you, and for each of you for one another,
and for himself. Here there is only holiness and joining without limit.
For what is Heaven but union, direct and perfect, and without the veil
of fear upon it? Here are we one, looking with perfect gentleness upon
each other, and on ourselves. Here all thoughts of any separation
between us becomes impossible. You who were prisoners in separation are
now made free in Paradise. And here would I unite with you, my friends,
my brothers and my Self. Your gift unto each other has given me the
certainty our union will be soon.

Share, then, this faith with me, and know that it is justified. There is
no fear in perfect love BECAUSE it knows no sin, and it must look on
others as on itself. Looking with charity within, what can it fear
WITHOUT? The innocent see safety, and the pure in heart see God within
His Son, and look unto the Son to lead them to the Father. And where
else would they go but where they will to be? Each of you now will lead
the other to the Father as surely as God created His Son holy, and kept
him so. In your brother is the light of God’s eternal promise of your
immortality. See HIM as sinless, and there can BE no fear in you.

