---
title: Mar 4, 2006
ref: T11.6 The Vision of Christ
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet.

I’m going to jump right in with a question. Where do you go to get
information about how you are? The simple fact is that few of you go to
the right spot. Where you do go is to your body. “How am I today? Any
aches or pains? Anything acting up?” And you give yourself a little
physical exam in order to find out how you are. And how many of you have
felt stuck this week with the information you got when you went to that
source?

Before I continue I want to point out something else. You tend to give
your body a personality, or the parts of your body a personality.
Generally speaking, you might find yourself saying, “Oh, I’m afraid my
body is giving up on me.” Or if you have a rash, you say, “My, that’s a
very angry rash,” as though your body is expressing emotion, capable of
feeling emotion and expressing it on itself. And when you do that, you
make it sound as though your body “in and of itself” is something
intelligent, just like you’re intelligent. This other thing called your
body is intelligent. And it can, oh, how many of you said, “My stomach
is objecting to the meal I just ate”? You see? And you create a picture
in your mind of your body having a life and a mind of its own, capable
of making decisions and coming to conclusions, and acting out its
feelings. This is not wise, because you have everything 180 degrees out
of sync.

The fact is, as I’ve said before, your body is the visibility and
tangibility of your Individuality. Your individuality, for lack of
better words, is mental, is Mind. Your body reflects whatever word
you’re giving. It’s always been this way. And so you give a word, even
before you have a physical complaint.

Oh, there’s another word: complaint. “My body has a complaint. It’s
complaining.” You see? I mean, you’re very familiar with these words
that seem to portray it as having a life of its own.

But before your body offers a complaint, you have a mindset. Your
mindset might be one of anger. Your mindset might be one of jealousy. It
might be one of self-righteousness. It might be one of offense. And in
that hurt mental frame of mind, what are you doing? You’re sending out
messages which, because the body is the visibility and tangibility of
your Individuality, will reflect back to you exactly what you are
embodying by means of the words you are choosing to use in your mind and
the conceptualizations you have built in your mind.

And then, you stupidly say, “Why, I don’t know what happened but all of
a sudden my body is falling apart,” or, “All of a sudden, I have this
headache,” as though [laughing] wonder of wonders, it happened without
your participation. The fact is that whatever you’re experiencing
physically is always secondary to an originating thought, an originating
attitude which you have chosen to embrace, and by embracing it you have
embodied it. You have made it your own. You have possessed it. And what?
It’s going to show up. And so you say, “I think my body may be giving up
on me”—like, “I did something wrong and I must have really hurt its
feelings, and it’s giving up on me.”

If you don’t remember the order of things—that the idea comes first;
that you are Mind, not matter; that you are Mind, not body; and that
body is just the visibility and tangibility of your mental presence, if
I may put it that way—if you don’t remember that, and then you go to
your body to find out how you are, you are going to be fooled, you are
going to be confused, and you’re going to believe what you’re confused
about.

Now truth is useless if it isn’t relevant. Everything that we’re reading
about is useless if it isn’t relevant to your health. You know that I
keep saying that you’re the Christ, that you are the Presence of God,
that you are what God is being right there where you are, and that
you’re neither behind the Point of Perfection nor advancing toward it.
And yet you will abandon that truth in favor of an ache or a pain, and
the characterization you apply to that ache or pain, or whatever
physical symptoms you might be experiencing. And so you don’t catch “the
thought,” and correct it. And you don’t have healing. You don’t have a
reversal, because you have not reversed the thought.

Now when you seem to be faced with a physical condition that is
persisting, you must remember what the solution is. And the solution
does not lie in believing the symptom. The solution lies in remembering
Who You Are. “I am my Father’s Son. I am my Father’s Daughter. I am the
direct expression of God. And His Expression is perfect. I cannot afford
to continue to pay attention to my best assessment of the situation,
based upon the data I have gathered from my body.”

What happens when you have a child running around who is out of sorts,
cranky, whose every act is one that doesn’t fit, one that causes
disturbance? You don’t just let the child continue. You tell the child,
“Go sit down. Sit down and be quiet. And I want you to think about
whether what you’re doing is making you happy or not. And if it’s not
making you happy, I want you to think about what you’re going to do to
change your behavior so that what you do does make you happy.” You need
to sit yourself down. You need to hogtie yourself, to remember—when
you’re running away with the data that your body supplied you—to
remember to shut up, to shut up your mind, to stop putting it to the use
you’re putting it to, and to choose for your peace.

“No, I’ve done that. I did that for about ten minutes an hour ago. And I
did it for about fifteen minutes the hour before that. And nothing has
happened. There is no use.” Again, that’s not miracle-mindedness. And
all it is, is a call for you to practice a little bit of self
discipline, and stay with the Truth about yourself longer than ten
minutes. If you have to stay in your peace by engaging in meditation for
four hours, do it!

Because once you change your mind, once the decision as to what source
you’re going to be using to gather information about how well you are,
once you make a new decision, you will see the evidence. Not because you
have marvelous control over this “physical body,” but because your body
and your Mind are inseparable, and the moment you come into singularity
in your Mind, you will have the evidence of harmony. And whatever the
symptom is of distress, will fade, either rapidly or instantaneously,
but it will fade.

Until you’re awake, don’t go to “the effect” of your Mind to find out
how you are. Go directly to your Mind and bring it into alignment, bring
it into Peace. And do it with diligence. Persist in it. Persist in it
until you have the evidence. And each time you do this and you have
evidence, each successive time you do it, will take less and less time,
because part of your mind will not as strongly be saying, “This isn’t
going to work.”

Your body can’t give up on you, but it can reflect back to you whether
you’re giving up on yourself. But then, because you’re eternal, you’re
giving up on yourself doesn’t really mean much, because it’s impossible
for you to totally give up on yourself. So you’re really not under any
kind of threat, even if you have given up on yourself.

*God is in His Holy Place and all is well.* It is impossible for you to be
anywhere else than in that Holy Place, because God is All There Is of
you. God is All There Is to you. And that is the transformational fact.
That is the fact that corrects illusions, delusions, ignorance,
misunderstanding, and all suffering. That fact is what you need to turn
to, to gather information about how well you are.

It is a very simple thing. It is not too simple. And it is not so simple
that you can’t possibly grasp the transformational experience that will
come from it. You are each capable of doing what it is your Birthright
to do—which is to glorify God, which is to embody God, or allow God to
embody Himself right there where you are.

And it doesn’t matter how impossible the circumstance seems to be. The
impossibility of the circumstance is nothing more than an idea that you
are postulating in your mind, and then substantiating by whatever means
you can, or discrediting by whatever means you can. So get about the
business of discrediting authorizations you have been providing that are
contrary to the perfect nature of your Being and of your existence,
including your body and everything in your world.

Stop “the thought” you are entertaining in its tracks by replacing it
with the idea that is True. If you’re experiencing some physical
condition that is not expressing or embodying health, stop! Stop
immediately and say, “God, are You creating this?” The answer, of
course, will be, “No,” because God is not conflicted, God is not
fragmented, and the indivisible Nature of God’s Being must be reflected
in the indivisible and perfect harmony of all Creation, because there is
nothing else to be manifest from That which is Pure.

And then, stay in dialogue with God. And if you can’t stay in dialogue
with God, then sit down and meditate until you have come into your
peace. And honor that peace of your Being enough to abide with it and
not find the physical symptoms to be more worthy of your attention than
your peace. And of course, out of that peace, your desire, your natural
desire to see the evidence of Love, and to *be* the evidence of Love.

So use some discipline. And don’t settle for ongoing niggling or overt
distresses. And if you are noticing physical symptoms, say, “Oop! I’ve
gotten off the track. Where? In my mind.” And then ask for help in
coming back into your peace, back into your capacity to feel and
recognize Love, rather than fear.

I know there are those this week who were very happy to consider the
statement, “God is in His Holy Place and all is well,” and then found
themselves not to be in a place of wonder and amazement and harmony and
peace. “Well, maybe God is in His Holy Place and wherever that is, all
is well—but not here.” Why? Because you went to your body to find out
how you were. You went to “the effect,” while ignoring the cause, while
ignoring the source.

If God is infinite Mind and God is embodying Himself right there where
you are, then you are infinite Mind. And if God’s Mind is not conflicted
or fragmented or divided, then neither is yours, although you can think
in conflicted ways, but your Mind is singular.

And the avenue out of the suffering that is the result of conflicted
thinking, is what? To abandon thinking. To take time to, with diligence,
meditate and move back into your natural peace, which hasn’t been
affected in any way by the conflicted thoughts you were thinking, and
the fear you engendered in yourself as a result. And then honor that
peace enough not to abandon it until the evidence, the visibility and
tangibility of your Individuality begins to reflect the Singularity of
what your Individuality is when you’re not thinking and when you’re not
characterizing your body as though it has a personality or a life of its
own.

Let’s go to the book.

<div class="well book">
Every Child of God is one in Christ, for his Being is in Christ as
Christ’s is in God. [^1]
</div>

We could read it this way: *Every little orphan is one in Christ, for
his Being is in Christ as Christ’s is in God.*

This is how you begin to remember Who You Are in spite of the fact that
you have believed that you’re an orphan.

<div class="well book">
Christ’s love for you is His love for His Father, which He knows because
He knows His Father’s Love for Him.
</div>

Now this can just as easily be read about me being the Christ as it can
be read about *you* truly being the Christ in spite of your belief in
orphanhood.

<div class="well book">
Christ’s love for you is His love for His Father, which He knows because
He knows His Father’s Love for Him. When the Holy Spirit &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which you could call your Christhood held in trust while you dally
with the ego.

<div class="well book">
When the Holy Spirit has at last led you to Christ &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; to your Self &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; at the altar to His Father, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; listen to this &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; perception fuses into knowledge because perception has become so
holy that its transfer to holiness is merely its natural extension.
</div>

As you yield to the influx of Truth that dawns in your thought, in your
mind, and it becomes clearer and clearer to you so that it becomes
second nature to you—and this doesn’t have to take a long time—there is
a resulting “Aha!” of realization. And that’s when the fusion occurs.

<div class="well book">
When the Holy Spirit has at last led you to Christ at the altar to His
Father, perception fuses into knowledge because perception has become so
holy that its transfer to holiness is merely its natural extension.
</div>

“Oh! I see!” That’s the experience of the natural extension. “I see! And
now I don’t see any differently from the way things Are.”

<div class="well book">
Love transfers to love without any interference, for the situations are
identical. As you perceive more and more common elements in ALL
situations, the transfer of your training under the Holy Spirit’s
guidance increases and becomes generalized.
</div>

Now there’s an important point here.

<div class="well book">
As you perceive more and more common elements in ALL situations, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; that means all the situations you run into every day of your life.
It means that spiritual understanding is not an exclusive experience
that draws you further and further away from daily mundane experiences.

And this is very important, because you do not want to become
spiritually &hellip; well, let’s put it this way, you don’t want to become
dysfunctional by virtue of your growing spiritual awareness. And if you
think that spiritual awareness has very little to do with your daily
life, then you are going to arrive at a point where you’re trying to
separate or be separate from your daily life so that you may abide in
your spiritual awareness. And that will cause you to be dysfunctional
and you will not perceive more and more common elements in all
situations. As a result, the transfer of your training under the Holy
Spirit’s guidance will not increase and will not become generalized.

<div class="well book">
Gradually you learn to apply it to everyone and everything, for its
applicability IS universal. When this has been accomplished, perception
and knowledge &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; or, as I have called it, Knowing &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; have become so similar that they share the unification of the laws
of God.
</div>

This is very important. Most people die because they believe that their
Spirit and their body are two different things existing in two different
or as two different modes of being; one which reflects the truth and one
which does not. And as a result, they see their body as able to act on
its own; a temporary host to that of you which is spiritual. But not a
permanent host, because after all, all it is, is a host. You see? Now
that’s the word that you give.

That’s the perception that the orphan has of the visibility and
tangibility of Individuality. It sees it as something different from
visibility and tangibility. As a result, the belief is that there can
never really be a true reconciliation of Mind and body, because they are
two opposing things, fundamentally. Stop letting the Truth, stop letting
God’s Truth, stop letting the nature of Reality be something different
from and fundamentally at odds with everything in your human experience,
including your body, including your world.

It is inevitable for you to perceive more and more common elements in
all situations. It’s essential for you to.

<div class="well book">
What is one &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; not separated. Indivisible.

<div class="well book">
What is one cannot be perceived as separate, and the denial of the
separation IS the re-instatement of knowledge.
</div>

Of Knowing.

<div class="well book">
At the altar of God, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; which is where? Right in the center of your Being.

<div class="well book">
At the altar of God, the holy perception of God’s Son &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; becomes so enlightened that light streams into it, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; the infilling of the awareness of Truth streams in, illuminating
your awareness and uncovering to you that this tiny sense of orphanhood
is absolute sheer nonsense, meaningless, and that it has been foolish
for you to have been laboring under the idea that it’s real and true.

<div class="well book">
&hellip; and the Spirit of God’s Son shines in the Mind of the Father &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; why? Why does it shine in the Mind of the Father? It shines in the
Mind of the Father because suddenly you are no longer claiming to be an
orphan. You’re no longer claiming a right to be an authority in your own
right. You’re no longer wanting to make up all the definitions yourself
and to have disowned your Source.

<div class="well book">
&hellip; and the Spirit of God’s Son shines in the Mind of the Father and
becomes One with It.
</div>

You might say that the illumination is a two-way street. You’re blessed,
but the Father is blessed because you have decided to glorify God again.

<div class="well book">
Very gently does God shine upon Himself, loving the extension of Himself
which is His Son.
</div>

You.

<div class="well book">
The world has no purpose &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; on its own.

<div class="well book">
The world has no purpose as it blends into the Purpose of God.
</div>

All the meanings that you’ve applied to the world as this authoritative
little orphan fades, dissolves because you’re no longer energizing them.
And the world which was Creation all along becomes illuminated for what
it is. And the world you made up that has no purpose, blends into the
Purpose of God. That which you were applying false purpose to blends
back into the Purpose of God.

<div class="well book">
For the real world has slipped quietly into Heaven, where everything
eternal in it has always been.
</div>

Redemption is the uncovering of that which has always been. The
redemption of your body will be the uncovering of what has always
perfectly been. It’s not a manipulation of “bad matter” into “good
matter.” It’s not the manipulation of “matter” into Spirit. Redemption
is the remembering and the unobstructed conscious experience of what has
always been.

<div class="well book">
There the Redeemer and the redeemed join in perfect love of God and of
each other.
</div>

Very important:

<div class="well book">
&hellip; and of each other.
</div>

Again &hellip;

<div class="well book">
As you perceive more and more common elements in ALL situations, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; and we could say, all Brothers. All people, places, and things.

<div class="well book">
&hellip; the transfer of your training under the Holy Spirit’s guidance
increases and becomes generalized. Gradually you learn to apply it to
everyone and everything, for its applicability IS universal. When this
has been accomplished, perception and knowledge have become so similar
that they share the unification of the laws of God.
</div>

It is very important for you to not continue to make differences between
the things you see.

“This is me, and that is not me. That is him, and that is not him. This
is real, and this is unreal. This is matter, and this is Spirit. This is
acceptable, and that is unacceptable. This eyeball is acceptable; that
eyeball is not. This eyeball has something wrong with it; that one does
not. This hip is acceptable; that hip is not. This knee is acceptable;
that one is not. That one needs surgery because something is wrong with
it; it is not acceptable.”

You must stop making differentiations. And then you must bring all of
the things which you have made differentiations between under the
purview of God. You must bring it back into the acknowledgment that God
is in His Holy Place and all is well, and nothing is outside Him. Not
this knee; not that knee. Not this hip; not that hip. Not this eye; not
that eye. None of them are outside the Omnipotent Authority of God being
All, without conflict, without dissonance of any kind, because God is
Single, God is Singular. Creation is Pure.

<div class="well book">
The world &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; of itself &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; has no purpose as it blends into the Purpose of God. For the real
world has slipped quietly &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; where? &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; into Heaven, &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; into what it was all along.

<div class="well book">
&hellip; where everything eternal in it has always been. There the Redeemer
and the redeemed join in perfect love of God and of each other.

Heaven is your home, and being in God it must ALSO be in you.
</div>

The point tonight is for all of you to come back into your simplicity,
and to withdraw the temptation to characterize your body or your world
as though it had a personality, capable of providing self-direction to
it that might not be in your best interest. To remember that the use to
which you put your Mind governs what you experience, either distorting
your perception of what perfectly is, or undistorting it by virtue of
your returning to the proper, sane use of your Mind.

And remember, as I said, when you’re experiencing an ache or a pain, ask
God, “Are You creating this?” And please, don’t indulge in this really
insane and perverse question, “God, are You creating this for my
benefit?” If God isn’t creating it, it isn’t happening except in your
imagination—your troubled imagination. The troubled imagination that all
of you have as long as you believe that you’re orphans, that you’re on
your own, and it’s up to you.

Remember that so that you can pinpoint what it is that you need to
abandon and stop doing. And then ask the Holy Spirit, or ask God, to
correct your mind by causing an infilling of the awareness of Truth that
renders your thinking nonsensical enough to you that you willingly lay
it down. As we said last week, you walk with mighty Companions.
Everything &hellip; everything in its true Light as What It Truly Is,
stands with you in support of and confirmation of your being in your
right Mind. Help is available to you, but you must invite it in instead
of continuing to energize your right to have your own thoughts and
believe them.

Now I trust that you will all have a better week this week than you had
this last week. And if you don’t, don’t believe your doubt. Ask
yourself, “What source are you going to, to gather your information
from?” And if it isn’t the Holy Spirit, if it isn’t me, if it isn’t the
Father, then stop going to that source, and get back into your peace.

I know many of you might be saying, “Well, why is he stopping here?
We’ve just arrived at the point where it says, ‘The Guide for Miracles.’
That’s just exactly what I need.” What you need is what I’ve shared.
Without a grasp of what I’ve shared, “The Guide for Miracles” is not
going to make sense. And I don’t want you grasping for a means to make a
miracle happen. I’m never ever going to tell you how to make a miracle
happen, but I am always going to tell you what you need to do to let a
miracle in.

Okay.

I love you all. I love you all, every one of you. And I look forward to
being with you next week.

[^1]: Chapter 11 Section – THE VISION OF CHRIST \
   Sparkly Book p271, 2nd Full Par. \
   JCIM p114, 3rd Full Par. \
   CIMS p227, Par. 59 \
   Chapter 12 Section – THE VISION OF CHRIST \
   First Edition p213 \
   Second Edition p229, Par. 6

