---
title: Jun 3, 2006
ref: "T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability"
---

Good Evening.And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

Well, I&rsquo;m going to start off the night tonight with something for
a newyellow post-it&mdash;or sticky note to put on your refrigerator. It
is this: THINKING IS NOT THE NORMAL ACTIVITY OF YOUR MIND. Thinking is
not the normal activity of your mind. The normal,the Divinely
Normalactivity of your mind isattention. It&rsquo;s what I&rsquo;ve
referred to in the pastas the willingness to be present with a thing; to
be present with someone else; to simply be present with, without
pre-conceptions. The normal activity of mind is attention.

Attention is attentiveness, isn&rsquo;t it. Which means that attention
is an expectation&mdash;an expectation of havingsomething to pay
attention to, an expectation of experiencing something. You could say
that attention is an invitation to experience. It is a state of
innocence, if you don&rsquo;t bring into it preconceptions. If you
don&rsquo;t bring into play memory. If you don&rsquo;t bring into play
all of your typical knee-jerk mental responses which means your habits
of thinking. Attention is quiet. It is not an assertion of anything. It
is a receptivity, awillingness to receive; an expectation of standing in
receipt. Because it is not divided up or structured by thoughts or
theories or concepts. It stands un-resistant against all of Creation. It
is a capacity to have Infinite Experience.

All of youhave the capacity to set aside thoughts. And the most typical
practice for doing that is called meditation. As we&rsquo;ve said
before: Thinking is not synonymous with being conscious. When you
allowyour mind to simply benot in the state of attention, but to be
itself the state of attention, holiness, holiness of Being,holiness of
perceptionis available to you.

In the silence of Being the state of attention, revelation can occur:
The direct Experience of God Being You; of God&rsquo;s Infinite Mind
Being your Mindbecomes available to you. Now mind you,what we&rsquo;re
talking about becoming available to you, is somethingyou originally had.
It&rsquo;s something that you still have, but you cover over bythe
busyness of your mind; by the busyness of your thinking,by your habits
ofassessing situations and coming to conclusions and then basing
decisions upon those conclusions. And you busy yourself with this all
day long.

But thinking is not the normal use of Mind. It&rsquo;s one of the
reasons I talk so much about listening. Because even if you&rsquo;re
with a friend and there&rsquo;s a conversation going on, if you want to
hear what the friend is talking about and, you have interest in the
subject that is being discussed, you will shut-up so that you can hear.
You will become still enough to pay attention to what your friend is
saying.

So you know how to still your mind and be quiet long enough to hear.
Paying attention to what you hear. All of you do. It&rsquo;s a capacity
you all already have. It&rsquo;s just that you don&rsquo;t realize its
value; it&rsquo;s life-changing significance and importance.

Ultimately all of you are afraid that if you stopped thinking you would
lose your Identity. But it&rsquo;s not true. You think that if you
stopped thinking, you would become unable to function in the world. And
this is notso. Paul is not thinking right now, but he&rsquo;s
functioning in the world. Intelligence is being expressed. But more than
anything, Love is being extended. He is letting Love move through him;
Love that is finding expression in words that allow transformation to
occur in those who are listening. Why? Becausewhat is being shared
stands specifically as a useful means for sudden release from your old
ways of thinking so that an aha! [finger snap] can happen. An insight
can occur that leaves you in a new place so that you cannever leave. You
can never really go back to where you were before the insight happened.

You know what? When you let yourself be in the silence, when you value
the absence of thinking enough to allow the silence to occur and you let
yourself be in it without goals, you just let yourself deserve the
experience of Peace and rest in it, sudden shifts of perception do
occur. Insights occur. A new experience of something around you reveals
itself to you. And what happens? You say &hellip; your mouth opens and
&ldquo;Ohh &hellip; oh Wow!&rdquo; comes out. You see?

You&rsquo;re not incapable of speaking. You&rsquo;re not incapable of
communicating that something has happened. But what comes out of your
mouthbecomes an expression of some sort of awe: a-w-e. Some sort of
recognition of the actuality of Divinity&mdash;of Holiness. What comes
out of your mouth in Biblical terms can be called, &ldquo;praising
God&rdquo; because it&rsquo;s an exclamation of recognition of something
meaningful. Even now, what is coming out of Paul&rsquo;s mouth expresses
a recognition of something meaningful that he is having.

How much better it would be if, as you went through your days, what came
out of your mouth was some form of an expression of awe, some form of
praising God. Something which, when heard by others, would inspire
them&mdash;would put them at ease&mdash;would make them feel
comfortable, where before they were filled with fear.

Now, I am talking the way I am talking because it&rsquo;s in the context
of A Course In Miracles. But in a different setting, under different
circumstances, I may not say anything about God. I may not say anything
about Brotherhood, I may not say anything about guiltlessness &hellip;
you see. And neither will you. You will always be appropriate in the
setting. And so, you will not stand out like a sore thumb, as I&rsquo;ve
said before.

Now, what makes thinking so damned valuable to you that you invest every
moment of your waking day employing it? Well, you thinkit gives you your
identity. You thinkthat the thoughts you think define you.

You&rsquo;re a doctor. Your language&mdash;the thoughts you
think&mdash;the way you reason, gives you medical identity andrespect,
let&rsquo;s say,within the medical community. If you are a social
worker, your language is expressed in a completely different context.
And again,we will say, wins you happy patients as well as, let us say,
respect among the community of social workers.You&rsquo;re a mother. And
everything your mother taught you about motherhood that was of value and
perhaps even what wasn&rsquo;t of value, but you find valuable, you
embody. And, of course, your grandmother is in there somewhere. And your
great grandmother is in there somewhere as well; and all of the means
you have to elicit the best from your children comes out in the language
you use and it identifies you as a mother&mdash;distinctly different
froma telephone operatoror a backhoe operator. You see?

And so you fill your mind with the thoughts that give you identity. And
the clearer you are about who you are, the better off you are. You say:
&ldquo;The clearer I am, the more clearly everyone else can see me. The
more confused I am, the more confused everyone else will be about
me.&rdquo; You see?Well, how did you pick yourrole? How did you pickwhat
identity you were going to employ so that you would learn the
appropriate language? Well, I&rsquo;m going torephrase the question: Why
did you pick a roleand then pick a language for expressing thatrole in
order to give yourself identity?

You did it because you forgotthat in the silence of your Being, in the
state of BeingPure Mind&mdash;Being Pure Attention,you arethat.  And the
capacity you havein the silence of your mind allows your mind to be
filled with the Movement of God, that causes you to speakin praise of
God.It allows you to speak in praise of the Good that is obvious to you;
profound Good that is obvious to you, where,when you wereactive in your
thinking mind,what you saw seemed to be relatively good. Certainly not
awesome. Certainly not smacking ofholiness.

You think. Because you&rsquo;ve forgotten Who You Are.

Now, that phrase you&rsquo;re not unfamiliar with: you have forgotten
Who You Are.  And the Holy Spirit helps you remember Who You Are. And
it&rsquo;salmost inevitable that you allimagine&mdash;spontaneously
imaginethat Who You Really Are will be a new definition;a new role.
You&rsquo;ll just knowthat you&rsquo;re a holy manor a holy woman.
You&rsquo;ll know that you are &hellip; mm &hellip; let&rsquo;s say,the
Presence of God in the world, whatever that might mean. Butyou have the
idea that it will be a new definition, which will be accompanied with
new language of expression, that will identify you like the oldrole did.

But I want you to listen carefully here: What you are,is not a new set
of thoughts. What you are, is the absence of thoughts. What you are, is
the Silence of Mind that is attentionundivided, attention&mdash;whole
attention,simple, pure attention.

Well, that sort of throws you out into the deep blue, doesn&rsquo;t it?
Because if you take what I&rsquo;ve just said to be the Truth,you have
no way of anticipating what it&rsquo;s going to mean, do you. You have
no way to peg ahead of time what it&rsquo;s going to be. And you have no
capacity to assume that any of the skills you&rsquo;ve currently been
employing will be employable. Because, after all, they require thinking,
don&rsquo;t they?And if you&rsquo;re not going to be thinking,thenwhat
is going to be happening? You see?

The Course says that teaching what Love is, is beyond the scope of the
Course. Well it&rsquo;s beyond the scope of anything because Loveis What
you discover yourself being infilled with when you&rsquo;re willing to
stop thinking and go into the Silenceand say:

&ldquo;Father, Thy Will be done. Father,let me be filled with all that
You Are Being&mdash;right here where I see me. Father, I wish to yieldto
the Realityof Methat has to be going on right here where I thought I
have beenalone, isolated,andconstantly in danger.I will listenfor Your
Voice. I will stoplistening for my voice&mdash;meaning my thinking;my
best practices of reason. I will shut up long enough to hear. Fill me
today with all Thou art.&rdquo;

Now thatsounds perhaps a little stilted and formal. I&rsquo;ve said it
many times in a muchsimpler way. I&rsquo;ve said,bring curiosity into
play so that when you look at a thing or you look in a mirror at
yourself, you say: &ldquo;What is the More that is here than I&rsquo;m
presently seeing?&rdquo; You see? &ldquo;What I&rsquo;m seeing does not
look like the Kingdom of Heaven, but Raj continues to tell me that the
only thing that is ever in my face is the Kingdom of Heaven, so
there&rsquo;s more here than what I&rsquo;m seeing. And I would like to
see It. I would like to feel It. I would like to experience It.&rdquo;

How do you do that? You shut. up.your. mind.as thougha communication was
occurring so interestingand so full of the unexpected that you
don&rsquo;t want to miss it! Because no matter where you are at this
moment, and no matter what is within your line of sight, It&rsquo;s the
Kingdom of Heaven. It is Ultimate Reality, even though that is not what
you&rsquo;re experiencing of It at this moment.Your use of your mind is
exactly what blocks you from experiencing Reality As It Is. And the use
you put your mind to is not its normal use. You put it to the use of
thinking.And basically, you put itto the use of thinking poorlyabout
yourselves, and poorly about your brothers and sisters, and poorly about
the world. And on and on and on.

Now,we talked last week aboutthe great value there is to you in your
having a brother that has eyes that you can look intoand that your
Function is to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and what? Remember
God. To have an insight&mdash;an aha!&mdash;a shift of perception!
It&rsquo;s your Function to look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and
remember God.

Well now, let&rsquo;s think aboutit for a moment. Things are not really
complicated here, although thinking makes it so. If your Function is to
look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes and remember Godand thus be blessed
yourself, as well as your brother being blessed, what is your
brother&rsquo;s Function, whose eyes you&rsquo;re looking into? His Real
Function&mdash;just as yours, is to look into your eyes and remember
God! The Functionthe two of you have is to bless each other with
recognizing God in your sight.

Now,if you are busy thinking poorly about yourself, and you&rsquo;re
busy thinking poorly about your brother&mdash;let&rsquo;s say, downright
awfully about your brother,what if your brother is standing there
looking at you and actually remembering God? And you&rsquo;re sitting
there or standing there looking&mdash;not remembering God,but thinking
awfully about himor her! Are you not standing in a position of
condemnation toward your brother? Judgment? And ifyouare intent upon
validating your perception of him, are you going to be anywhere
nearwillingto value the &ldquo;Oh &hellip; .Wow!&rdquo;that comes out of
his mouth, because he&rsquo;s seeing God where you are? Are you going to
be able toaccept the wonderful exclamations of the Truth about you that
he or she is seeing, as you&rsquo;re sitting there with your awful
thoughts about him which you feel fully justified in having? Is it
anywhere within your capacity at that momentto see the slightest glimmer
of a possibility that thisawfully-considered one might have of the Truth
about you, and thatyou could be standingat thatmoment in receipt of a
blessing that would turn your head around and change your life?

Is there even the slightest capacity to see the smallest glimmer of Love
that might be coming from there? Or is yourawful thought about him one
that says: &ldquo;Impossible! And even if she did have a kind thought
about me, I wouldn&rsquo;t have any truck with it. She is so this, or so
that! Or he is so this, soobstinate, so stubborn, so mean, so
thoughtless! And I can give you example after example after example
after example. In fact, I can show you their whole life history and show
you that it&rsquo;s apattern that&rsquo;s been going on forever. What
me? . . think for a moment, [chuckling] that this bitch or this bastard
might beable to give me a gift that would change my lifebecause of What
They Truly Are?&rdquo; No.

Now just for practicality, it may be that&mdash;humanly speaking, that
person does have this history, and thelong list that you could spell
offmight very well identify behaviors and attitudes that this one has
expressed.Oh Ms. perfect so-in-so. . you, who can provide the list. .are
you really so perfect? Are you not standing there with self righteous
arrogant,awful judgmental thoughts about that person?  Doesthat embody
good character? Does your behavior reflect a worthinessthatcomes from
anywhere other thana greatsmallness of mind? Do you not needsomeone to
look at youno matter who it might beand see God there and be able to
reflect back to youyour Holinessso that you might let go of your awful
thoughts about yourself?

And do they not, even in the midst of their bad behavior, need someone
to recognize that their bad behavior doesn&rsquo;t identify them,and
that their badthoughts or unintelligent thoughts or incoherent thoughts
don&rsquo;t identify what they really are? Do they not deserve someone
who&rsquo;s willing to look beyond them because in order for there to be
any awful definition there, there has to be something Real
therethat&rsquo;s been covered up by their own awful thoughts and the
awfulthoughts of others, just like you?

You believe thatyou are your thoughts and you believe that others are
their thoughts. And you think that idea&mdash;thatthought has substance
to it. You think that it is absolutely dependable. And so you hold onto
it as though it were an anchor. You anchor yourself in the thought. When
you need to be anchoring yourself in the Mind in which the thought was
occurring.You need to anchor yourself in the Mind in which that thought
isoccurringsoyou can set the thought down. So that you can be silent and
move back into the state of attention that is the normal activity of
Mind.

Now, let&rsquo;s go into the book.

*Guiltlessness and Invulnerability*.[^1]

If you did not feel guilty, you COULD not attack, for condemnation is
the root of attack. It is the judgment of one mind by another as
UNWORTHY of love and DESERVING of punishment.

Now, that is the accepted definition of guilt. It is a different meaning
than I was using for the word, guilt, last week. And I just want to make
that distinction.

If you did not feel guilty you COULD not attack.

See,if you didn&rsquo;t feel like you were out of your skin,if you
didn&rsquo;t feel as thoughyou were in an unnatural state,in otherwords,
if you were in your peace and you therefore felt whole, you would never
attack.

But you do feel like you&rsquo;re out of your skin. You do feel like a
stranger in a strange land. You do feel out of place and at odds with
everything and out of sorts with everything and not being able to make
sense out of what everything is and not being able to fit in with it
because it&rsquo;s not like you.

And so you feel at a loss. Constantly at a loss in one way or anther to
one degree or another. I wonder why? Well, do you suppose it mightbe
because at some point you said, &ldquo;Father I&rsquo;d rather see it my
way. Father I would rather do it my way. Father I want a divorce. I want
to cut off communication with you for awhile and explore my capacities
on my own.&rdquo;

As we&rsquo;ve said over and over again, when you did that, which
you&rsquo;re capable of imagining you can do, you put yourself in a
position of forgetting your Source, because you pushed the Awareness of
your Source, your Father,out somewhere in the back forty of your mind.
And you said: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just going to pay attention to the part
of the Infinity of my mind that&rsquo;s not behind me; that&rsquo;s not
where I shoved all the things I don&rsquo;t want to look at.&rdquo; And
this caused you to feel alone and isolated.

Now, as I also said last week, when youdeny part of yourself, you
can&rsquo;t&mdash;it is something you cannot fully accomplish. You can
ignore Part of yourself, but you can&rsquo;t actually get rid of it in
that state of self-denial. And denying your Father is part of your
denying yourself, you willfeel the fact that you are trying to do
something that is impossibleand that therefore, your attempt is going to
be a futile attempt, which means that it&rsquo;s unintelligent. Or
we&rsquo;ll put it another way, stupid!

Ah, here&rsquo;s where you&rsquo;re faced with having to make a choice:
Are you going to take responsibility for and acknowledge thatyou are
doing something that won&rsquo;t work? that you&rsquo;re doing something
that is fundamentally wrong? And in the honesty of that acknowledgement,
stay in your Sanity?Or are you going to denythat you&rsquo;re misusing
your mindand fight for the right to stay in this state of ignorance,
without having to acknowledge that it&rsquo;s a state of ignorance? Are
you going to do something that is wrong, meaningthat which can&rsquo;t
possibly be done&mdash;and that which won&rsquo;t work? Are you going to
deny that you&rsquo;re wrong andpersist with a confidence that what
you&rsquo;re doing is not only possible because God gave you the right
to do it because He gave you free willand you are going to persist at
the expense of your Peace?

If you choose for that, you&rsquo;re choosing for insanity. Andbecause
you will not be able to get rid of the discomfort&mdash;the dissonance
of being at odds withthat which you can&rsquo;t successful beingat odds
with, you will have to account for the discomfort in some other way than
owning it. Which means you&rsquo;re going to have to account for it by
disowning it. And you&rsquo;re going to have to blame something or
someone else. You see?You will feel guiltyfor doing something that
can&rsquo;t be done. And knowing that it can&rsquo;t be done,
you&rsquo;re going to persist anyway!

Now, if you&rsquo;re going to disown it and place it out there, it means
that every time you look into your brother&rsquo;s eyes, you are
notgoing to remember God. It isn&rsquo;t that you will forget to. It is
that you have decided&mdash;actually ahead of time&mdash;that
you&rsquo;re not going to let your brotherlook at you and remember God,
and let that have any effect on you! Why? Because if you did that, you
would have to come back into your Right Mind and acknowledge:
&ldquo;Yes, I have chosen to do something that is impossible andI know
it&rsquo;s impossible. But I&rsquo;m insisting on doing it anyway. I am
doing something unintelligent. I am being stupid.&rdquo; You see?
That&rsquo;s what would have to happenif you would let your brother look
at you and remember God, andbathe youin his clear awareness of you.

If you did not feel guilty, you COULD not attack, for condemnation is
the root of attack. It is the judgment of one mind by another as
UNWORTHY of Love, and deserving of punishment. But herein lies the
split. For the mind that judges perceives itself as SEPARATE from the
mind being judged,&hellip;

&ldquo;Oh that so-and-so over there,that bitch, that bastard.
[chuckling]) They&rsquo;re not like me. We&rsquo;ve got no connection.
They&rsquo;re their own independent soul just like I am.
That&rsquo;sabout the only thing we have in common.&rdquo; You see?

For the mind that judges sees itself as separate from the mind being
judged, believing that by punishing another, it will escape punishment.

So you blame the other one so that you don&rsquo;t have to look at what
you&rsquo;re really doing. And you think that by blaming the other one,
you&rsquo;ll escape the punishment&mdash;the penalty&mdash;that you will
escape having to pay attention to the ever-present dissonance that you
are actually experiencing because you&rsquo;re trying to do the
impossible, and deny some part of yourself, which is Forever Whole, and
Forever Unchangeable&mdash;Forever Unalterable. And therefore, as long
as you persist in trying to denyPart or All of What You Divinely Are,
you will feelthe insanity of the attempt!

And so, no matter how much you project it out and blame everyone else
and everything else, the discomfort&mdash;the dissonance&mdash;will not
disappear. Why? Because you haven&rsquo;t abandoned any of the thinking
and let yourself sink back intothe normal use of your mind; the normal
function of your mind, which is not thinking at all, but is pure,
unadulterated attentiveness &hellip; attention.

All this is but the delusional attempt of the mind to &hellip; what?
deny itselfand ESCAPE THE PENALTY OF DENIAL. Now, what needs to be clear
here is that you usually think of penalty as something that is assigned
some time afterthe offense has occurred. Somebody commits an offense.
Oh, he&rsquo;s arrested. He&rsquo;s put in jail. A court date is set.
Attorneys are hired. They present their cases. Guilt is decided, and
thena penalty is set.

But you see, the only penalty there is here, is the
instantaneousexperience of the fact that you can&rsquo;t become insane.
And what I mean by that is, that when you attempt to deny What You Are,
which is an attempt to do the impossible, the energy you bringto bear
upon ignoring some Part of your Self is inseparably accompanied bya
dissonance; the discomfort that comes from using your mind wrongly. It
is simultaneous with the attempt. And it is as strong as the attempt. So
if you push againstan immovable object, you could say it presses back
with equal force, because the attempt is an attempt to change something
that can&rsquo;t change. So the penalty is simultaneous, and equal to
the amount of energy you bring to the attemptto be out of your mind.

And what&rsquo;s pressing back against your attempt to be out of your
mind is your innate Sanity, that cannot never be lost!

And so it&rsquo;s always an immediate and equal standoff.You push again
Truthand you experience the impossibility ofthere being any effect of
your pushing against Truth. And it&rsquo;s equal to the attempt. And the
attempt is thwarted. And, as long as you persist in the attempt,it will
bean ongoing standoff. Until what? Until finally you arrive at a point
where you say: &ldquo;Whew. It&rsquo;s not worth the effort. I&rsquo;m
not getting where I thought I would be going. This is too hard.
I&rsquo;m wearing myself out.&rdquo; And you arrive at a point of giving
up pushing against the Truth, or denying Something that can&rsquo;t be
gotten rid of.

And inevitably you stopintellectually or mentally insisting upondoing
what can&rsquo;t be done. And your mind becomes still, and you havea
holy moment&mdash;a moment of holinessbecausein the absence of the noise
of your thinking, the sounds of Heaven that have always been goinginyour
attention … can register.

So &hellip; 

All this is but the delusional attempt of the mind to deny itself and
ESCAPE THE PENALTY OF DENIAL.It is not an attempt to RELINQUISHdenial,
but to HOLD ON to it. For it is guilt that has obscured the Father to
you, and it is guilt that has driven you insane.

The acceptance of guilt into the mind of God&rsquo;s Son was the
beginning of the separation, as the acceptance of the Atonement is its
end.

If you only Knew What You Were. If you only knew Who You Really Are. And
Knowing Who and What You Are is what lies in store for youawaiting your
willingness to let It in. Because It&rsquo;s Awesome. Right now It is
Awesome, as you sit there,as you listen. And the only thing that keeps
you from experiencing It is you think you have your identity pegged. You
think you&rsquo;ve got it down. Why? Because you can explain it.
Andthen, using other thoughts, you can justify your explanation. And on
and on and on.

Really &hellip; really beginto devalue whateverdefinition of yourself
you&rsquo;ve been employing, whether it&rsquo;s one that&rsquo;s
excellent or whether it&rsquo;s one that&rsquo;s awful. It doesn&rsquo;t
matter. It doesn&rsquo;t matter what the explanation or the definition
or the justification is. It doesn&rsquo;t matter whether it&rsquo;s a
good one or a bad one. Either way it&rsquo;s a structure of thoughts and
either way they blind you from the experience of the Awesomeness of What
You Are As Mindthat is available to you when you abandon the thoughts
and the definitionsand the concepts.

We&rsquo;re sort of narrowing down the situation into itsfundamental
simplicity. Becauseas I said,you all know youhave available to you right
now the meansto be thought-less. You have the means. Even if it&rsquo;s
only been momentary for you at times, you&rsquo;ve had the experience of
Silence &hellip; of Being without thought,beyond thought however you
might want to put it.

What you didn&rsquo;t know was that that silence is the thresholdof you
coming back into your Right Mind And that therefore, it isof Infinitely
greater value than any thought you might fill your mind with!

Continuing &hellip;

The world you see is the delusional system of those mademad by guilt.
Look carefully at this world and you will realize that this is so.

Justlook in your own household or turn on the TV and look at theinsanity
going on in your world. And notice how the insanity that is being
carried outhas its basis in mindsets, whether it&rsquo;s national
mindsets, whether it&rsquo;s racial mindsets, whether it&rsquo;s
military mindsets, whether it&rsquo;s political mindsets, what is being
carried out is occurring because people are not being able to let go of
the definitions and the rules that they have thought up, that they
further thinkconstitutes their salvation.

Notice this when you watch the news. And then, take advantage of its
transfer value, because sometimes it&rsquo;s easier to see about someone
elsewhat you can&rsquo;t see about yourself, but which is absolutely
true about yourself. Recognizing that it&rsquo;s true about yourself is
the beginning of Sanity, because it&rsquo;s the beginning of being able
to take responsibility for what you&rsquo;re doing. And once you take
responsibility for it; once you own the fact that: &ldquo;Hey. Yes, I am
doing that too.&rdquo;You&rsquo;re in a position where you can change
your mind. Or, I&rsquo;m going to say: Change the use to which
you&rsquo;re putting your mind. And practice letting go of thinking. And
practice &ldquo;the Silence.&rdquo;

Look carefully at this world, and you will realize that this is so. For
this world is the symbol of punishment, and all the laws which seem to
govern it are the laws of death. Children are born into it through pain
and in pain their growth is attended by suffering, and theylearn of
sorrow and separation and death.  Their minds are trapped in their
brain,.. or at least that&rsquo;s what they&rsquo;re led to believeTheir
minds are trapped in their brain, and its powers decline if their bodies
are hurt. They seem to love, yet they desert and are deserted. They
appear to lose what they love, perhaps the most insane belief of all.
And their bodies wither and gasp, and are laid in the ground and seem to
be no more. Not one of them but has thought that God is cruel.

If this were the Real World, God WOULD be cruel, for no Father could
subject His Children to this as the price of salvation and be loving.
Love does not kill to save. LOVE DOES NOT KILL TO SAVE. If it did,
attack would be salvation, And this is the EGO&rsquo;s interpretation.
NOT God&rsquo;s.

So, here it is:

Only the world of guilt could demand this, for only the guilty could
CONCEIVE of it. Got to be careful here because it makes it sound as
though there is someone who could really be guilty. The whole experience
of guilt is a resultof a poor use, an improper useof the mind. Not the
normal use of the mind.

And as long as the improper&mdash;or not normal&mdash;use of the mind is
occurring, the description we just read of your experience of the world
will persist. Not because it&rsquo;s actual,but becauseyou&rsquo;ve made
a commitmentto making up definitions about what you&rsquo;re seeing,and
you&rsquo;ve chosen to commit to those definitions and ignore the fact
that you&rsquo;re making them up. Ignore the fact that in committing to
them you are choosing to refuse to see What Everything Really Is. And
you&rsquo;re doing it by means of the thoughts you&rsquo;re thinking.

And the Answerto the dilemma is simple! Abandon the thinking and start
listening. Because when you listen for the Truth, what are you going to
hear the Truth about? You&rsquo;re going to hear the Truth about
everything that you&rsquo;vebeen believing a lie aboutand committing
yourself to.

And so by listening, you won&rsquo;t be transported out ofthis cruel
world. You&rsquo;ll be transported out ofcontext of thinking about
Reality, in which everything is screwed up, into the Awareness of
Reality As It Is. And thereby, everything you have been seeing in a
distorted fashion, you will now see clearly. It will not constitute a
loss of anything meaningful, but the regaining of the Actual, Divine
Holy Awesome capital M Meaning of everything you had applied an awful,
little, tiny, demeaning definition to, inan attempt to secure an
identitythat you could never have privately … all alone.

Now,the subject tonight is notserious. Nor is it something for you to
become depressed about or worried about. I have expressed the ideas with
excellent logic, which your thinking mind can appreciate.  But the logic
and the clarity with which I&rsquo;ve shared itgives you a triggerfor
moving beyond your logic, and considera new wayof Being. And,
perhaps,even a curiosity to try to employ listeningrather than thinking!

What we&rsquo;ve been discussing tonight is essential towhat we&rsquo;re
going to be discussing as we move further on. And so, I encourage you
all to review it,because of the benefit it holds for youbetween now and
next week.

I have extended to you an Excellent Gift: A Gift of Excellence &mdash;
the Function of Which is to uncover your Excellence, so that you might
consider It a possibility, rather than an impossibility.

I Love You All. And I look forward to Being with younest
week.Don&rsquo;t be afraid of the Truth. &ldquo;Ye shall know the Truth,
and the Truth shall set you free.&rdquo; And let Me just say that
doesn&rsquo;t mean: Ye shall know the Truth that you already know, and
the Truth shall set you free. It means: Ye shall Know the
Truth&mdash;What It Really Is. And in the aha! and the insight and the
revelation that follows, you will be set free.

Let your desire beto know the Truththat&rsquo;s greater than any of your
present concepts of Truth.Okay.

[^1]: T11.9 Guiltlessness and Invulnerability

