---
chapter: One
ctitle: Introduction to Miracles
title: Distortions of Miracle Impulses
ref: T1.2
---

You are involved in unconscious distortions which are producing a dense
cover over miracle impulses, and which make it hard for them to reach
consciousness. The nature of any interpersonal relationship is limited
or defined by what you want it to DO. Relating is a way of achieving an
outcome. The danger of defenses lies in their propensity for holding
misperceptions rigidly in place. All actions which stem from reverse
thinking are literally the behavioral expressions of those who know not
what they do. A rigid orientation can be extremely reliable, even if it
is upside-down. In fact, the more consistently upside-down it is, the
MORE reliable it is.

However, validity is still the ultimate goal, which reliability can only
serve. Hostility, triumph, vengeance, self-debasement, and all kinds of
expressions of lack of love are often very clearly seen in the fantasies
which accompany them. But it is a PROFOUND error to imagine that because
these fantasies are so frequent, or occur so reliably, that this implies
validity. Remember that while validity implies reliability, the
relationship is NOT reversible. You can be wholly reliable and ENTIRELY
wrong. While a reliable instrument DOES measure something, what USE is
it unless you discover what the “something” is? This course, then, will
concentrate on validity, and let reliability fall naturally into place.

The confusion of miracle impulses with physical impulses is a major
source of perceptual distortion because it INDUCES, rather than
straightens out, the basic level confusion which underlies the
perception of all those who seek happiness with the instruments of this
world. Inappropriate physical impulses (or misdirected miracle impulses)
result in conscious guilt if expressed and depression if denied. ALL
real pleasure comes from doing God’s Will. This is
because NOT doing It is a denial of self. DENIAL of error results in
projection. CORRECTION of error brings release. “Lead us not into
temptation” means “do not let us deceive ourselves into believing that
we can relate in peace to God or to our brothers with ANYTHING
external.”

Child of God, you were created to create the good, the beautiful, and
the holy. Do not lose sight of this. The love of God, for a little while,
must still be expressed through one body to another because the real
vision is still so dim. Everyone can use his body best by enlarging
man’s perception so he can see the REAL vision. THIS vision is invisible
to the physical eye. The ultimate purpose of the body is to render
itself unnecessary. Learning to do this is the only real reason for its
creation.

Fantasies of any kind are distorted forms of thinking because they
ALWAYS involve twisting perception into unreality. Fantasy is a debased
form of vision. Vision and revelation are closely related, while fantasy
and projection are more closely associated because both attempt to
control external reality according to false internal needs. Twist
reality in ANY way, and you are perceiving destructively. Reality was
lost through usurpation, which in turn produced tyranny. I told you that
you are now restored to your former role in the plan of Atonement, but
you must still choose freely to devote yourselves to the greater
restoration. As long as a single slave remains to walk the earth, your
release is not complete. COMPLETE restoration of the Sonship is the only
true goal of the miracle-minded.

NO fantasies are true. They are distortions of perception, by
definition. They are a means of making false associations, and obtaining
pleasure from them. Man can do this only because he IS creative. But
although he can perceive false associations, he can never make them real
EXCEPT TO HIMSELF. Man believes in what he creates. If he creates
miracles, he will be equally strong in his belief in THEM. The strength
of HIS conviction will then sustain the belief of the miracle receiver.
And fantasies become totally unnecessary as the wholly satisfying nature
of reality becomes apparent to both.

