---
chapter: Twenty Four
ctitle: Specialness and Separation
title: Specialness as a Substitute for Love
ref: T24.1
---

Love is extension. To withhold the smallest gift is not to know love’s
purpose. Love offers everything forever. Hold back but one belief, one
offering, and love is gone, because you asked a substitute to take its
place. And now must war, the substitute for peace, come with the one
alternative that you can choose for love. Your choosing it has given it
all the reality it seems to have.

Beliefs will never openly attack each other, because conflicting
outcomes are impossible. But an unrecognized belief is a decision to war
in secret, where the results of conflict are kept unknown and never
brought to reason, to be considered sensible or not. And many senseless
outcomes have been reached, and meaningless decisions have been made and
kept hidden, to become beliefs now given power to direct all subsequent
decisions. Mistake you not the power of these hidden warriors to disrupt
your peace. For it IS at their mercy while you decide to leave it there.
The secret enemies of peace, your least decision to choose attack
instead of love, unrecognized and swift to challenge you to combat and
to violence far more inclusive than you think, are there by your
election. Do not deny their presence nor their terrible results. All
that can be denied is their REALITY, but not their outcome.

All that is ever cherished as a hidden belief, to be defended though
unrecognized, is faith in specialness. This takes many forms, but always
clashes with the reality of God’s creation, and with the grandeur which
He gave His Son. What else could justify attack? For who could hate
someone whose Self is his, and whom He knows? Only the special could
have enemies, for they are different and not the same. And difference of
any kind imposes orders of reality, and a need to judge that cannot be
escaped.

What God created cannot be attacked, for there is nothing in the
universe unlike itself. But what is different CALLS for judgement, and
this must come from someone “better,” someone incapable of being like
what he condemns, “above” it, sinless by comparison with it. And thus
does specialness become a means and end at once. For specialness not
only sets apart, but serves as grounds from which attack on those who
seem “beneath” the special one is “natural” and “just.” The special ones
feel weak and frail BECAUSE of differences, for what would make them
special IS their enemy. Yet they protect its enmity, and call it
“friend.” On its behalf they fight against the universe, for nothing in
the world they value more.

Specialness is the great dictator of the wrong decisions. Here is the
grand illusion of what you are, and what your brother is. And here is
what must make the body dear, and worth preserving. Specialness must be
DEFENDED. Illusions CAN attack it, and they DO. For what your brother
must become to KEEP your specialness IS an illusion. He who is “worse”
than you must be attacked, so that your specialness can live on his
defeat. For specialness is triumph, and its victory is his defeat and
shame. How can he live, with all your sins upon him? And who must be his
conqueror but you?

Would it be possible for you to hate your brother if you were like him?
Could you attack him if you realized you journey with him, to a goal
that is the same? Would you not help him reach it, in every way you
could, if his attainment of it were perceived as yours? You ARE his
enemy in specialness; his friend in a shared purpose. Specialness can
never share, for it depends on goals that you alone can reach. And he
must never reach them, or your goal is jeopardized. Can love have
meaning where the goal is triumph? And what decision can be made for
this that will not hurt you? Your brother is your friend BECAUSE his
Father created him like you. There IS no difference. You have been given
to each other that love might be extended, not cut off from one another.
What you KEEP is lost to you. God gave you both Himself, and to remember
this is now the only purpose that you share. And so it is the only one
you HAVE.

Could you attack each other if you chose to see no specialness of any
kind between you? Look fairly at whatever makes you give each other only
partial welcome, or would let you think that you are better off apart.
Is it not always your belief your specialness is LIMITED by your
relationship? And is not this the “enemy” that makes you both illusions
to each other?

The fear of God, and of each other, comes from each unrecognized belief
in specialness. For each demands the other bow to it AGAINST his will.
And God Himself must honor it, or suffer vengeance. Every twinge of
malice, or stab of hate, or wish to separate arises here. For here the
purpose which you share becomes obscured from both of you. You would
oppose this course because it teaches you you are ALIKE. You have no
purpose that is not the same,
and none your Father does not share with you. For your relationship has
been made clean of special goals. And would you now DEFEAT the goal of
holiness that Heaven gave it? What perspective can the special have that
does not change with every seeming blow, each slight, or fancied
judgement on itself?

Those who are special MUST defend illusions against the truth. For what
is specialness but an attack upon the Will of God? You love your brother
not while it is this you would defend against him. This is what HE
attacks, and YOU protect. Here is the ground of battle which you wage
against him. Here must he be your enemy, and not your friend. Never can
there be peace among the different. He is your friend BECAUSE you are
the same.

