---
chapter: Twenty Four
ctitle: Specialness and Separation
title: The Forgiveness of Specialness
ref: T24.3
---

Forgiveness is the end of specialness. Only illusions can be forgiven,
and then they disappear. Forgiveness is release from ALL illusions, and
that is why it is impossible but partly to forgive. No-one who clings
to one illusion can see himself as sinless, for he holds one error to
himself as lovely still. And so he calls it “unforgiveable,” and makes
it sin. How can he then GIVE his forgiveness wholly, when he would not
receive it for himself? For it is sure he would receive it wholly the
instant that he gave it so. And thus his secret guilt would disappear,
forgiven by himself.

Whatever form of specialness you cherish, you have made sin. Inviolate
it stands, strongly defended with all your puny might against the Will
of God. And thus it stands against yourself; YOUR enemy, not God’s. So
does it seem to split you off from God, and make you separate from Him
as its defender. You would protect what God created not. And yet, this
idol that seems to GIVE you power has taken it away. For you have given
your brother’s birthright to it, leaving him alone and unforgiven, and
yourself in sin beside him, both in misery, before the idol that can
save you not.

It is not YOU that is so vulnerable and open to attack that just a word,
a little whisper that you do not like, a circumstance that suits you
not, or an event that you did not anticipate upsets your world, and
hurls it into chaos. Truth is not frail. Illusions leave it perfectly
unmoved. But specialness is NOT the truth in you. IT can be thrown off
balance by anything. What rests on nothing NEVER can be stable. However
large and overblown it seems to be, it still must rock and turn and
whirl about with every breeze.

Without foundation nothing is secure. Would God have left His Son in such
a state, where safety has no meaning? No, His Son is safe, resting on
Him. It is your specialness that is attacked by everything that walks
and breathes, or creeps or crawls, or even lives at all. Nothing is safe
from its attack, and it is safe from nothing. It will forever more be
unforgiving, for that is what it IS; a secret vow that what God wants
for you will never be, and that you will oppose His Will forever. Nor is
it possible the two can ever be the same while specialness stands like a
flaming sword of death between them, and makes them “enemies.”

God asks for your forgiveness. He would have no separation, like an
alien will, rise between what He wills for you and what you will. They
ARE the same, for neither one wills specialness. How could they will the
death of love itself? Yet they are powerless to make attack
upon illusions. They are not bodies; as one Mind they wait for all
illusions to be brought to them, and left behind. Salvation challenges
not even death. And God Himself,Who knows that death is not your will,
must say, “Thy will be done” because YOU think it IS.

Forgive the great Creator of the universe, the Source of life, of love
and holiness, the perfect Father of a perfect Son, for your illusions of
your specialness. Here is the hell you chose to be your home. He chose
not this for you. Ask not He enter this. The way is barred to love and
to salvation. Yet if you would release your brother from the depths of
hell, you have forgiven Him Whose Will it is you rest forever in the
arms of peace, in perfect safety, and without the heat and malice of one
thought of specialness to mar your rest. Forgive the Holy One the
specialness He could not give, and which you made instead.

The special ones are all asleep, surrounded by a world of loveliness
they do not see. Freedom and peace and joy stand there, beside the bier
on which they sleep, and call them to come forth and waken from their
dream of death. Yet they hear nothing. They are lost in dreams of
specialness. They hate the call that would awaken them, and they curse
God because He did not make their dream reality. Curse God and die, but
not by Him Who made not death; but only in the dream. Open your eyes a
little; see the Savior God gave to you that you might look on him, and
give him back his birthright. It is YOURS.

The slaves of specialness will yet be free. Such is the Will of God, and
of His Son. Would God condemn HIMSELF to hell and to damnation? And do
YOU will that this be done unto your Savior? God calls to you from him
to join His Will to save you BOTH from hell. Look on the print of nails
upon his hands that he holds out for your forgiveness. God asks your
mercy on His Son and on Himself. Deny them not. They ask of you but that
your will be done. They seek your love that you may love yourself. Love
not your specialness instead of them. The print of nails are on your
hands as well. Forgive your Father it was not His Will that you be
crucified.

