---
chapter: Twenty Four
ctitle: Specialness and Separation
title: The Resolution of the Dream
ref: T24.5
---

The Christ in you is very still. He looks on what He loves, and knows it
as Himself. And thus does He rejoice at what He sees, because He knows
that it is one with Him and with His Father. Specialness, too, takes joy
in what it sees, although it is not true. Yet what you seek for IS a
source of joy as you conceive it. What you wish is true for you. Nor is
it possible that you can wish for something and lack faith that it is
so. Wishing MAKES real, as surely as does will create. The power of a
wish upholds illusions as strongly as does love extend itself. Except
that one deludes; the other heals.

There is no dream of specialness, however hidden or disguised the form,
however lovely it may seem to be, however much it delicately offers the
hope of peace and the escape from pain, in which you suffer not your
condemnation. In dreams, effect and cause are interchanged, for here the
maker of the dream believes that what he made is happening to him. He
does not realize he picked a thread from here, a scrap from there, and
wove a picture out of nothing. For the parts do not belong together, and
the whole contributes nothing to the parts to give them meaning.

Where could your peace arise BUT from forgiveness? The Christ in you
looks only on the truth, and sees no condemnation that could NEED
forgiveness. He is at peace BECAUSE He sees no
sin. Identify with Him, and what has He that you have not? He is your
eyes, your ears, your hands, your feet. How gentle are the sights He
sees, the sounds He hears. How beautiful His hand that holds His
brother’s, and how lovingly He walks beside him, showing him what can be
seen and heard, and where he will see nothing, and there is no sound to
hear.

Yet let your specialness direct his way, and YOU will follow. And BOTH
will walk in danger, each intent, in the dark forest of the sightless,
unlit but by the shifting tiny gleams that spark an instant from the
fireflies of sin and then go out, to lead the other to a nameless
precipice, and hurl him over it. For what can specialness delight in but
to kill? What does it seek for but the sight of death? Where does it
lead but to destruction? Yet think not that it looked upon your brother
first, nor hated him before it hated you. The sin its eyes behold in him
and love to look upon it saw in YOU, and looks on still with joy. Yet IS
it joy to look upon decay and madness, and believe this crumbling thing,
with flesh already loosened from the bone and sightless holes for eyes,
is like yourself?

Rejoice you HAVE no eyes with which to see; no ears to listen, and no
hands to hold nor feet to guide. Be glad that only Christ can lend you
His, while you have need of them. They are illusions, too, as much as
yours. And yet because they serve a different purpose, the strength
their purpose holds is given them. And what they see and hear and hold
and lead is given light, that you may lead as you were led.

The Christ in you is very still. He knows where you are going, and He
leads you there in gentleness and blessing all the way. His love for God
replaces all the fear you thought you saw within yourself. His holiness
shows you Himself in him whose hand you hold, and whom you lead to Him.
And what you see is like yourself. For what but Christ is there to see
and hear and love and follow home? He looked upon you first, but
recognized that you were not complete. And so He sought for your
completion in each living thing that He beholds and loves. And seeks it
still, that each might offer you the Love of God.

Yet is He quiet, for He knows that love is in you now, and safely held
in you by that same hand that holds your brother’s in your own. Christ’s
hand holds all His brothers in Himself. He gives them vision
for their sightless eyes, and sings to them of Heaven, that their ears
may hear no more the sound of battle and of death. He reaches through
them, holding out His hand, that everyone may bless all living things,
and see their holiness. And He rejoices that these sights are yours, to
look upon with Him and share His joy. His perfect lack of specialness He
offers you, that you may save all living things from death, receiving
from each one the gift of life that your forgiveness offers to your
Self. The sight of Christ is all there is to see. The song of Christ is
all there is to hear. The hand of Christ is all there is to hold. There
IS no journey but to walk with Him.

You who would be content with specialness, and seek salvation in a war
with love, consider this: The holy Lord of Heaven has Himself come down
to you, to offer you your own completion. What is His is yours because in
your completion is His Own. He Who willed not to be without His Son
could never will that you be brotherless. And would He give a brother
unto you except he be as perfect as yourself, and just as like to Him in
holiness as YOU must be?

There must be doubt before there can be conflict. And every doubt must
be about yourself. Christ has no doubt, and from His certainty His quiet
comes. He will exchange His certainty for all your doubts, if you agree
that He is one with you, and that this Oneness is endless, timeless, and
within your grasp BECAUSE your hands are HIS. He is within you, yet He
walks beside you and before, leading the way that He must go to find
Himself complete. His quietness becomes your certainty. And where is
doubt when certainty has come?

