---
chapter: Ten
ctitle: God and the Ego
title: Projection versus Extension
ref: T10.1
---

You have made by projection, but God has created by extension. The
cornerstone of God’s creation is YOU, for His thought system is light.
Remember the rays that are there unseen. The more you approach the
center of His thought system, the clearer the light becomes. The closer
you come to the ego’s thought system, the darker and more obscure
becomes the way. Yet even the little spark in your mind is enough to
lighten it. Bring this light fearlessly with you, and hold it up to the
foundation of the ego’s thought system bravely. Be willing to judge it
with perfect honesty. Open the dark cornerstone of terror on which it
rests, and bring it out into the light. There you will see that it rests
on meaninglessness, and that everything of which you have been afraid
was based on nothing.

My brother, you are part of God and part of me. When you have at last
looked at the ego’s foundation without shrinking, you will also have
looked upon OURS. I come to you from our Father to offer you everything
again. Do not refuse it in order to keep a dark cornerstone hidden, for
ITS protection will not save you. I GIVE you the lamp and I will go WITH
you. You will not take this journey alone. I will lead you to your true
Father,Who hath need of you, as I have. Will you not answer the call of
love with joy?

You have learned your need of healing. Would you bring anything ELSE to
the Sonship, recognizing your need of healing for yourself? For in this
lies the beginning of knowledge; the foundation on which God will help
you build again the thought system which you share with HIM. Not one
stone you place upon it but will be blessed by Him, for you will be
restoring the holy dwelling place of His Son, where He wills His Son to
be and where he IS. In whatever part of the mind of God’s Son you
restore this reality, you restore it to YOURSELF. For you dwell in the
Mind of God WITH your brother, for God Himself did not will to be alone.

To be alone is to be separated from infinity, but how can this be if
infinity has no end? No-one can be BEYOND the limitless because what has
no limits must be everywhere. There are no beginnings and no endings in
God, Whose universe is Himself. Can you exclude yourself from the
universe, or from God Who IS the universe? I and my Father are one with
YOU, for you are part of US. Do you really
believe that part of God can be missing or lost to Him?

If you were not part of God, His Will would not be unified. Is this
conceivable? Can part of His Mind contain nothing? If your place in His
Mind cannot be filled by anyone EXCEPT you, and your filling it WAS your
creation, WITHOUT you there would be an empty place in God’s Mind.
Extension cannot be blocked and it HAS no voids. It continues forever,
however much it is denied. Your denial of its reality arrests it in time,
but NOT in eternity. That is why your creations have not ceased to be
extended, and why so much is waiting for your return.

Waiting is possible ONLY in time, but time has no meaning. You who made
delay can leave time behind simply by recognizing that neither
beginnings nor endings were created by the Eternal, Who placed no limits
on His creation, nor upon those who create like Him. You do not know
this simply because you have tried to limit what HE created, and so you
believe that ALL creation is limited. How, then, could you know your
creations, having DENIED infinity? The laws of the universe do not
permit contradiction. What holds for God holds for YOU. If you believe
YOU are absent from God, you WILL believe that He is absent from YOU.

Infinity is meaningless WITHOUT you, and YOU are meaningless without
God. There IS no end to God and His Son, for we ARE the universe. God is
not incomplete, and He is not childless. Because He did not will to be
alone, He created a Son like Himself. Do not deny Him His Son, for your
unwillingness to accept His Fatherhood has denied you YOURS. See His
creations as HIS Son, for yours were created in honor of Him. The
universe of love does not stop because you do not see it, and your
closed eyes have not lost the ability to see. Look upon the glory of His
creation, and you will learn what God has KEPT for you.

God had given you a place in His Mind which is yours forever. Yet you
could keep it only by GIVING it, as it was given YOU. Could YOU be alone
there, if it was given you because God did not will to be alone? God’s
Mind cannot BE lessened. It can ONLY be increased, and everything He
creates has the function of creating. Love does not limit, and what it
creates is not limited. To give without limit is God’s Will for you
because only this can bring you
the joy which is His, and which He wills to SHARE with you. Your love is
as boundless as His because it IS His.

Could any part of God be WITHOUT His Love, and could any part of His
Love be contained? God is your heritage because His one gift is Himself.
How can you give except like Him, if you would know His gift to YOU?
Give, then, without limit and without end, to learn how much HE has
given YOU. Your ability to ACCEPT Him depends on your willingness to
give as He gives. Your fatherhood and your Father ARE One. God willed to
create, and your will is His. It follows, then, that YOU will to create,
since your will follows from His. And being an extension of His Will,
yours must be the same.

Yet what you will you do not know. This is not strange when you realize
that to deny is to “NOT know.” God’s Will is that you are His Son. By
denying this you denied your OWN will, and therefore do NOT know what it
is. The reason you must ask what God’s Will is in everything is merely
because It IS yours. You do not know what it is, but the Holy Spirit
remembers it FOR you. Ask Him, therefore, what God’s Will is for you,
and He will tell you YOURS. It cannot be too often repeated that you do
NOT know it. Whenever what the Holy Spirit tells you appears to be
coercive, it is only because you do not RECOGNIZE your own will.

The projection of the ego makes it appear as if God’s Will is OUTSIDE
yourself, and therefore NOT yours. In this interpretation, it IS
possible for God’s Will and yours to conflict. God, then, may SEEM to
demand of you what you do not want to give, and thus deprive you of what
you want. Would God, Who wants ONLY your will, be capable of this? Your
will is His Life, which He has given to you. Even in time you cannot
live apart from Him, for sleep is not death. What He created can sleep,
but it CANNOT die. Immortality is His Will for His Son, and His Son’s
will for HIMSELF. God’s Son cannot will death for himself because His
Father is Life, and His Son is like Him. Creation is your will BECAUSE
it is His.

You cannot be happy unless you do what you will truly, and you cannot
change this because it is immutable. It is immutable by God’s Will AND
YOURS, for otherwise His Will would not have been extended. You are
afraid to know God’s Will because you believe it is NOT yours. This
belief is your whole sickness and your whole fear.  Every symptom of
sickness and fear arises here because this is the belief that makes you
WANT not to know. Believing this, you hide in darkness, denying that the
Light is in you.

You are asked to trust the Holy Spirit only because He speaks for YOU.
He is the Voice for God, but never forget that God did not will to be
alone. He SHARES His Will with you; He does not thrust It UPON you.
Always remember that what He gives He holds, so that nothing He gives
can contradict Him. You who share His Life must share it to know it, for
sharing IS knowing. Blessed are you who learn that to hear the Will of
your Father is to know your OWN. For it is YOUR will to be like Him,
Whose Will it is that it be so. God’s Will is that His Son be one, and
united with Him in His Oneness. That is why healing is the beginning of
the recognition that your will IS His.

