---
chapter: Ten
ctitle: God and the Ego
title: The Willingness for Healing
ref: T10.2
---

If sickness is separation, the will to heal and be healed is the first
step toward RECOGNIZING what you truly want. Every attack is a step away
from this, and every healing thought brings it closer. The Son of God HAS
both Father and Son because he IS both Father and Son. To unite having
and being is only to unite your will with His, for He wills you Himself.
And you will yourself to Him because, in your perfect understanding of
Him, you KNOW there is but One Will. Yet when you attack any part of God
and His Kingdom, your understanding is not perfect, and what you will is
therefore lost to you.

Healing thus becomes a lesson in UNDERSTANDING, and the more you
practice it, the better teacher AND LEARNER you become. If you have
denied truth, what better witnesses to its reality could you have than
those who have been healed by it? But be sure to count yourself among
them, for in your willingness to join them is YOUR healing accomplished.
Every miracle which you accomplish speaks to you of the Fatherhood of
God. Every healing thought which you accept, either from your brother or
in your own mind, teaches you that you are God’s Son. In every hurtful
thought you hold, wherever you perceive it, lies the denial of God’s
Fatherhood and your Sonship.

And denial is as total as love. You cannot deny part of yourself,
because the remainder will seem to be unintegrated, and therefore
without meaning. And being without meaning to you, you will not
understand it. To deny meaning MUST be to fail to understand. You can
heal only yourself, for only God’s Son NEEDS healing. He needs it
because he does not understand himself, and therefore knows not what he
does. Having forgotten his will, he does not know what he wants.

Healing is a sign that he wants TO MAKE WHOLE. And this willingness
opens his OWN ears to the Voice of the Holy Spirit, Whose message IS
wholeness. He will enable you to go far beyond the healing YOU would
undertake, for beside your small willingness to make whole He will lay
His Own COMPLETE Will and make YOURS whole. What can the Son of God NOT
accomplish with the Fatherhood of God in him? And yet the invitation
must come from you, for you have surely learned that whom you invite as
your guest WILL abide with you.

The Holy Spirit cannot speak to an unwelcoming host because He will NOT
BE HEARD. The Eternal Guest remains, but His Voice grows faint in alien
company. He needs your protection, but only because your care is a sign
that you WANT Him. Think like Him ever so slightly, and the little spark
becomes a blazing light that fills your mind so that He becomes your
ONLY Guest. Whenever you ask the ego to enter, you lessen His welcome.
He will remain, but YOU have allied yourself AGAINST Him. Whatever
journey you choose to take, He will go with you, waiting. You can safely
trust His patience, for He cannot leave a part of God. Yet you need far
more than patience.

You will never rest until you know your function AND FULFILL IT, for
only in this can your will and your Father’s be wholly joined. To HAVE
Him is to be LIKE Him, and He has given Himself to you. You who have God
MUST be as God, for HIS function became YOURS with His gift. Invite this
knowledge back into your minds, and let nothing that will obscure it
enter. The Guest Whom God sent you will teach you how to do this, if you
but recognize the little spark and are willing to LET IT GROW. YOUR
willingness need not be perfect because His IS. If you will merely offer
Him a little place, He will lighten it so much that you will gladly
extend it. And by THIS extending, you will begin to remember creation.

Would you be hostage to the ego or host to God? You will
accept only whom YOU invite. You are free to determine who shall be your
guest, and how long he shall remain with you. Yet this is not REAL
freedom, for it still depends on how you see it. The Holy Spirit is
THERE although He cannot help you without your invitation, and the ego
is nothing whether you invite it in or not. Real freedom depends on
welcoming REALITY, and of your guests only He is real. Know, then, Who
abides with you merely by recognizing what is there ALREADY, and do not
be satisfied with imaginary comforters, for the Comforter of God is in
you.

