---
chapter: Ten
ctitle: God and the Ego
title: From Darkness to Light
ref: T10.3
---

When you are weary, remember you have hurt yourself. Your Comforter will
rest you, but YOU cannot. You do not know HOW, for if you did you could
never have grown weary. Unless you have hurt yourselves you could never
suffer in ANY way, for that is not God’s Will for His Son. Pain is not
of Him, for He knows no attack and His peace surrounds you silently. God
is very quiet, for there is no conflict in Him. Conflict is the root of
all evil, for being blind it does not see whom it attacks. Yet it ALWAYS
attacks the Son of God, and the Son of God is YOU.

God’s Son is indeed in need of comfort, for he knows not what he does,
believing his will is not his own. The Kingdom is his, and yet he wanders
homelessly. At home in God he is lonely, and amid all his brothers he is
friendless. Would God LET this be real if He did not will to be alone
Himself? And if your will is His, it cannot be true of you BECAUSE it is
not true of Him. Oh, my children, if you knew what God wills for you
your joy would be complete! And what He wills HAS happened, for it was
ALWAYS true.

When the light comes and you have said, “God’s Will is mine,” you will
see such beauty that you will KNOW it is not of you. Out of your joy you
will create beauty in His name, for YOUR joy could no more be contained
than His. The bleak little world will vanish into nothingness, and your
heart will be so filled with joy that it will leap into Heaven and into
the Presence of God. I cannot tell you what this will be like, for your
hearts are not ready. Yet I CAN tell you, and remind you often, that what
God wills for Himself He wills for YOU, and what He wills for you IS
yours.

The way is not hard, but it IS very different. Yours is the way of pain,
of which God knows nothing. THAT way is hard indeed, and very lonely.
Fear and grief are your guests, and they go with you and abide with you
on the way. But the dark journey is not the way of God’s Son. Walk in
light and do not see the dark companions, for they are not fit
companions for the Son of God, who was created OF Light and IN Light.
The Great Light always surrounds you and shines out FROM you. How can
you see the dark companions in a Light such as this? If you see THEM it
is only because you are DENYING the Light. But deny THEM instead, for
the Light is here and the way is clear.

God hides nothing from His Son, even though His Son would hide
himself. Yet the Son of God cannot hide his glory, for God wills him to
be glorious, and gave him the Light that shines in him. You will never
lose your way for God leads you. When you wander you but undertake a
journey which is not real. The dark companions, the dark way, are all
illusions. Turn toward the Light, for the little spark in you is part of
a Light so great that It can sweep you out of all darkness forever. For
your Father IS your creator, and you ARE like Him.

The Children of Light cannot abide in darkness, for darkness is not in
them. Do not be deceived by the dark comforters, and never let them
enter the mind of God’s Son, for they have no place in His temple. When
you are tempted to deny Him, remember that there ARE no other gods that
you can place before Him, and accept His Will for you in peace. For you
CANNOT accept it otherwise.

Only God’s Comforter CAN comfort you. In the quiet of His temple, He
waits to give you the peace that is yours. GIVE His peace that you may
enter the temple and find it waiting for you. But be holy in the
Presence of God, or you will not know that you are there. For what is
unlike God cannot enter His Mind because it was not His Thought, and
therefore does not belong to Him. And YOUR minds must be as pure as His,
if you would know what belongs to YOU. Guard carefully His temple, for
He Himself dwells there, and abides in peace. You cannot enter God’s
Presence with the dark companions beside you, but you also cannot enter
alone.

ALL your brothers must enter WITH you, for until you have accepted them
YOU cannot enter. For you cannot understand Wholeness unless YOU are
whole, and no part of the Son can be
excluded if he would know the Wholeness of his Father. In your mind you
can accept the whole Sonship, and bless it with the Light your Father
gave it. Then you will be worthy to dwell in the temple WITH Him because
it is YOUR will not to be alone. God blessed His Son forever. If you
will bless him in time, you will BE in eternity. Time cannot separate
you from God if you use it on BEHALF of the eternal.

