---
layout: page
title: About Christ Mind 
---

## Greetings and Welcome

<div markdown="1" class="about-me">

It is my desire to share with you the message of love given so
patiently, in a million different ways, in a form that I call *Teachings
of Christ Mind*. They offer a perspective on life and living that is
immediately recognized as true and, at the same time, seen to be
opposite from the way life is typically lived on our planet.

It is for this reason they inspire a transformation of life and how it
is lived in those who dare try something new in recognition of the ways
of the past that didn't work.

On my journey, which started with *A Course in Miracles*, I have
experienced an understanding that has deepened over the years as layers
of misunderstanding began to peel away. For me, this understanding has
been greatly supported by teachings similar to ACIM such as *The Way of
Mastery*, insight into ACIM offered by Raj and the *Northwest Foundation
for ACIM*, and most recently, *A Course of Love*.

Immersing in these different expressions of love, of Christ Mind, given
in different voices and all expressing the same message I have grown to
deeply love and trust the pathway of Love they reveal.

I have found these messages to be far more than words on a page or
enlightened concepts to discuss with friends but rather as an
inspiration to live and incorporate into everyday life. I have also
found, at times, the words and concepts fading into the truth of
experience!

And *that's* a life worth living!

It's my hope that you'll find this site to be a useful reference and an
easy way to share what inspires you with others.

Visit often &ndash; the site is changing frequently, sometimes daily.
There is much to do and I gratefully accept any offer of support. You
can learn all about this site on the Christ Mind.info [landing page](/). 

Thanks for stopping by...

Rick Mercer
</div>

## Send Me a Message

Please send your comments and suggestions and questions. If you'd like
to offer your help I'd love know about that too. Head over to the
[Current](/#landing6present) section of the landing page to learn how
you can help.

<fieldset class="no-padding">
  <form action="/about/" id="contact-form" class="" netlify>
    <p>
      <label for="name">Name <span class="color-red">*</span></label>
      <input type="text" required name="name" id="name" class="form-control">
    </p>
    <p>
      <label for="email">Email <span class="color-red">*</span></label>
      <input type="email" required name="email" id="email" class="form-control">
    </p>
    <p>
      <label for="message">Message <span class="color-red">*</span></label>
      <textarea rows="8" required name="message" id="message" class="form-control">
      </textarea>
    </p>
    <p>
      <input type="submit" value="Send">
    </p>
  </form>
  <div class="form-message"></div>
</fieldset>

## Join Our Mailing List

Interested in *Christ Mind.info*? Get notified when there is news to
share!

<div class="mail-list">
  <fieldset class="no-padding">
    <form action="/about/" id="subscribe-form" class="" netlify>
      <p>
        <label for="name">Name: </label>
        <input type="text" name="name" id="name" class="form-control">
      </p>
      <p>
        <label for="email">Email: <span class="color-red">*</span></label>
        <input type="email" required name="email" id="email" class="form-control">
      </p>
      <p>
        <input type="submit" value="Subscribe">
      </p>
    </form>
    <div class="form-message"></div>
  </fieldset>
</div>


