---
chapter: Seventeen
ctitle: Forgiveness and Healing
title: The Need for Faith
ref: T17.7
---

There is no problem in any situation that faith will not solve. There is
no shift in any aspect of the problem but will make solution impossible.
For if you shift part of the problem elsewhere, the meaning of the
problem MUST be lost, and the solution to the problem is inherent in its
meaning. Is it not possible that all your problems HAVE been solved, but
you have removed yourself from the solution? Yet faith must be where
something has been done, and where you SEE it done. A situation is a
relationship, being the joining of thoughts. If problems are perceived,
it is because the thoughts are judged to be in conflict. But if the goal
is truth, this is impossible. Some idea of bodies must have entered, for
minds cannot attack.

The thought of bodies is the sign of faithlessness, for bodies cannot
solve anything. And it is their intrusion on the relationship, an error
in your thoughts ABOUT the situation, which then becomes the
justification for your lack of faith. You WILL make this error, but be
not at all concerned with that. The error does not matter. Faithlessness
brought to faith will never interfere with truth. But faithlessness used
AGAINST truth will always destroy faith. If you lack faith, ask that it
be restored where it was LOST, and seek not to have it made up to you
elsewhere, as if you had been unjustly deprived of it.

Only what YOU have not given can be lacking in ANY situation. But
remember this; the goal of holiness was set for your relationship, and
NOT by you. You did not set it because holiness cannot be seen EXCEPT
through faith, and your relationship was not
holy BECAUSE your faith in one another was so limited and little. Your
faith must grow to meet the goal that has been set. The goal’s reality
will call this forth, for you will see that peace and faith will not
come separately. What situation CAN you be in without faith, and remain
faithful to each other?

Every situation in which you find yourself is but a means to meet the
purpose set for your relationship. See it as something else, and you ARE
faithless. Use not your faithlessness. Let it enter and look upon it
calmly, but do not USE it. Faithlessness is the servant of illusion, and
wholly faithful to its master. Use it, and it will carry you straight to
illusions. Be tempted not by what it offers you. It interferes, not with
the goal, but with the value of the goal to YOU. Accept not the illusion
of peace it offers, but look upon its offering and recognize it IS
illusion.

The goal of illusion is as closely tied to faithlessness as faith to
truth. If you lack faith in anyone to fulfill, and PERFECTLY, his part
in any situation dedicated in advance to truth, YOUR dedication is
divided. And so you have been faithless to each other, and used your
faithlessness AGAINST each other. No relationship is holy unless its
holiness goes with it everywhere. As holiness and faith go hand in hand,
so must its faith go everywhere with it. The goal’s reality will call
forth and ACCOMPLISH every miracle needed for its fulfillment. Nothing
too small or too enormous, too weak or too compelling, but will be
gently turned to its use and purpose. The universe will serve it gladly,
as it serves the universe. But do not INTERFERE.

The power set in you in whom the Holy Spirit’s goal has been established
is so far beyond your little conception of the infinite that you have no
idea how great the strength that goes with you. And you can use THIS in
perfect safety. Yet for all its might, so great it reaches past the
stars and to the universe that lies beyond them, your little
faithlessness can make it useless, if you would use the faithlessness
instead.

Yet think on this, and learn the CAUSE of faithlessness: You think you
hold against the other what he has done to you. But what you really
blame him for is what YOU did to HIM. It is not HIS past but YOURS you
hold against him. And you lack faith in him because of what YOU were. Yet
you are as innocent of what you were as he is.

What never was is causeless, and is not THERE to interfere with truth.
There IS no cause for faithlessness, but there IS a Cause for faith.
That Cause has entered any situation which shares Its purpose. The light
of truth shines from the center of the situation, and touches everyone
to whom the situation’s purpose calls. It calls to EVERYONE. There is no
situation which does not involve your WHOLE relationship, in every
aspect and complete in every part. You can leave nothing of yourself
outside it, and keep the situation holy. For it shares the purpose of
your whole relationship, and derives its meaning from it.

Enter each situation with the faith that you give to each other, or you
ARE faithless to your own relationship. Your faith will call the others
to share your purpose, as this same purpose called forth the faith in
YOU. And you will see the means you once employed to lead you to
illusions transformed to means for truth. When the Holy Spirit changed
the purpose of your relationship by exchanging yours for His, the goal
He placed there was extended to every situation in which you enter, or
will EVER enter. And every situation was thus made free of the past,
which would have made it purposeless.

You call for faith because of Him Who walks with you in EVERY situation.
You are no longer wholly insane, nor no longer alone. For loneliness in
God MUST be a dream. You whose relationship shares the Holy Spirit’s
goal are set apart from loneliness because the truth has come. Its call
for faith is strong. Use not your faithlessness against it, for it calls
you to salvation and to peace.

