---
chapter: Seventeen
ctitle: Forgiveness and Healing
title: Shadows of the Past
ref: T17.3
---

To forgive is merely to remember only the LOVING thoughts you
gave in the past, and those that were given you. All the rest must be
forgotten. Forgiveness is a selective remembering, based not on YOUR
selection. For the shadow figures you would make immortal are “enemies”
of reality. Be willing to forgive the Son of God for what he did NOT
do. The shadow figures are the witnesses you bring with you to
demonstrate he did what he did NOT. Because you brought them, you will
hear them. And you who kept them by your OWN selection do not understand
how they came into your minds, and what their purpose is.

They represent the evil that you THINK was done to you. You bring them
with you only that you may return evil for evil, hoping that their
witness will enable you to think guiltily of another and NOT harm
yourself. They speak so clearly for the separation that no-one not
obsessed with KEEPING separation could hear them. They offer you the
“reasons” why you should enter into unholy alliances which support the
ego’s goals, and make your relationships the witness to its power. It is
these shadow figures which would make the EGO holy in your sight, and
teach you what you do to keep IT safe is really love.

The shadow figures ALWAYS speak for vengeance, and all relationships
into which they enter are totally insane. Without exception, these
relationships have, as their PURPOSE, the exclusion of the truth about
the other, and of YOURSELF. This is why you see in BOTH what is not
there, and make of both the slaves of vengeance. And why whatever
reminds you of your past grievances, no matter how distorted the
associations by which you arrive at the remembrance may be, attracts
you, and seems to you to go by the name of love. And finally, why all
such relationships become the attempt at union through the BODY, for
ONLY bodies can be seen as means for vengeance. That bodies are central
to all unholy relationships is evident. Your OWN experience has taught
you this. But what you do not realize are ALL the reasons which go to
make the relationship unholy. For unholiness seeks to REINFORCE itself,
as holiness does, by gathering to itself what it perceives as like
itself.

In the unholy relationship, it is not the body of the OTHER with which
union is attempted, but the bodies of those who are not THERE. Even the
body of the other, already a severely limited
perception of him, is not the central focus as it is, or in
entirety. What can be used for fantasies of vengeance, and what can be
most readily associated with those on whom vengeance is REALLY sought,
are centered on and separated OFF, as being the only parts of value.
Every step taken in the making, the maintaining and the breaking off of
the unholy relationship is a move toward further fragmentation and
unreality. The shadow figures enter more and more, and the one in whom
they seem to be DECREASES in importance.

Time is indeed unkind to the unholy relationship. For time IS cruel in
the ego’s hands, as it is kind when used for gentleness. The attraction
of the unholy relationship begins to fade and to be questioned almost at
once. Once it is formed, doubt MUST enter in because its purpose IS
impossible. The only such relationships which retain the fantasies that
center on them are those which have been dreamed of, but have not been
made at all. Where no reality has entered, there is nothing to intrude
upon the dream of happiness. Yet consider what this means; the MORE
reality that enters into the unholy relationship, the LESS SATISFYING it
becomes. And the more the FANTASIES can encompass, the GREATER the
satisfaction seems to be.

The “ideal” of the unholy relationship thus becomes one in which the
reality of the other does not enter AT ALL to “spoil” the dream. And the
less the other REALLY brings to it, the “better” it becomes. Thus, the
attempt at union becomes a way of excluding even the one with whom the
union was sought. For it was formed to get him OUT of it, and join with
fantasies in uninterrupted “bliss.” How can the Holy Spirit bring His
interpretation of the body as a means of communication into
relationships whose only purpose is SEPARATION from reality? What
forgiveness IS enables Him to do so.

If ALL but loving thoughts has been forgotten, what remains IS eternal.
And the transformed past is made like the PRESENT. No longer does the
past conflict with NOW. THIS continuity EXTENDS the present by
increasing its reality and its VALUE in your perception of it. In these
loving thoughts is the spark of beauty hidden in the ugliness of the
unholy relationship in which the hatred is remembered, yet THERE to come
alive as the relationship is given to Him Who gives it life and beauty.
That is why Atonement centers on the past,
which is the SOURCE of separation, and where it must be undone. For
separation must be corrected where it was MADE. The ego seeks to
“resolve” its problems, not at their source, but where they were NOT
made. And thus it seeks to guarantee there WILL be no solution.

The Holy Spirit wills only to make His resolutions complete and perfect,
and so He seeks and FINDS the source of problems where it IS, and there
undoes it. And with each step in His undoing is the SEPARATION more and
more undone, and union brought closer. He is not at all confused by any
“reasons” for separation. ALL He perceives in separation is that it must
be UNDONE. Let Him uncover the hidden spark of beauty in your
relationships, and show it to you. Its loveliness will so attract you
that you will be unwilling ever to lose the sight of it again. And you
will let it transform the relationship so you can see it more and more.
For you will WANT it more and more, and become increasingly unwilling to
let it be hidden from you. And you will learn to seek for, and
ESTABLISH, conditions in which this beauty can be seen.

All this you will do gladly, if you but let Him hold the spark before
you, to light your way and make it clear to you. God’s Son is one. Whom
God has joined as one, the ego CANNOT break apart. The spark of holiness
MUST be safe, however hidden it may be, in every relationship. For the
Creator of the one relationship has left no part of it without Himself.

This is the ONLY part of the relationship the Holy Spirit sees because
He knows that ONLY this is true. You have made the relationship unreal,
and therefore unholy, by seeing it WHERE it is not and AS it is not.
Give the past to Him Who can change your mind about it FOR you. But
first, be sure you fully realize what YOU have made the past to
represent, and why.

In brief, the past is now your justification for entering into a
continuing, unholy alliance with the ego AGAINST the present. For the
present IS forgiveness. Therefore, the relationships which the unholy
alliance dictates are not perceived nor felt as NOW. Yet the frame of
reference to which the present is referred for meaning is an ILLUSION of
the past, in which those elements which fit the purpose of the unholy
alliance are retained and all the rest let go. And what is thus let go
is all the truth the past could ever offer to the present as
witnesses for its reality, while what is kept but witnesses to the
reality of dreams.

It is still up to you to choose to be willing to join with truth or
illusion. But remember that to choose ONE is to let the other GO. Which
one you choose, you will endow with beauty and reality because the
choice DEPENDS on which you value more. The spark of beauty or the veil
of ugliness, the real world or the world of guilt and fear, truth or
illusion, freedom or slavery, – it is all the same. For you can never
choose EXCEPT between God and the ego. Thought systems are but true or
false, and all their attributes come simply from what they ARE. Only the
Thoughts of God are true. And all that follows from Them comes from what
They are, and is as true as is the holy Source from which They came.

My holy brothers, I would enter into all your relationships, and step
between you and your fantasies. Let MY relationship to you be real to
you, and let me bring reality to your perception of your brothers. They
were not created to enable you to hurt yourselves through them. They
were created to CREATE with you. This is the truth that I would
interpose between you and your goal of madness. Be not separate from me,
and let not the holy purpose of Atonement be lost to you in dreams of
vengeance. Relationships in which such dreams are cherished have
EXCLUDED me. Let me enter in the Name of God, and bring you peace that
you may offer peace to me.

