---
chapter: Seventeen
ctitle: Forgiveness and Healing
title: Fantasy and Distorted Perception
ref: T17.1
---

When you maintain that there must be order of difficulty in miracles,
all you mean is that there are some things you would withhold from
truth. You believe that truth cannot deal with them
only because you would KEEP them from truth. Very simply, your lack of
faith in the power that heals all pain arises from your wish to retain
some aspects of reality for fantasy. If you but realized what this must
do to your appreciation of the whole! What you reserve unto yourself,
you TAKE AWAY from Him Who would release you. Unless you give it back,
it is inevitable that your perspective on reality be warped and
uncorrected.

As long as you would have it so, so long will the illusion of order of
difficulty in miracles remain with you. For you have ESTABLISHED this
order in reality by giving some of it to one teacher, and some to
another. And so you learn to deal with part of truth in one way, and in
another way the other part. To fragment truth is to destroy it by
rendering it meaningless. Orders of reality is a perspective without
understanding, a frame of reference for reality to which it cannot
really BE compared at all.

Think you that you can bring truth to fantasy, and learn what truth
means from the perspective of illusions? Truth HAS no meaning in
illusion. The frame of reference for its meaning must be ITSELF. When
you try to bring truth to illusions, you are trying to make illusions
REAL, and keep them by JUSTIFYING your belief in them. But to give
illusions to truth is to enable truth to teach that the ILLUSIONS are
unreal, and thus enable you to escape from them. Reserve not one idea
aside from truth, or you establish orders of reality which must imprison
you. There IS no order in reality because EVERYTHING there is true.

Be willing, then, to give all you have held outside the truth to Him Who
KNOWS the truth, and in Whom all is brought to truth. Be not concerned
with anything except your WILLINGNESS to have this be accomplished. HE
will accomplish it; NOT you. But forget not this: When you become
disturbed and lose your peace of mind because ANOTHER is attempting to
solve his problems through fantasy, you are refusing to forgive YOURSELF
for just this same attempt. And you are holding BOTH of you away from
truth and from salvation. As you forgive him, you restore to truth what
was denied by BOTH of you. And you will see forgiveness where you have
GIVEN it.

