---
chapter: Four
ctitle: The Root of all Evil
title: The Ego-Body Illusion
ref: T4.5
---

ALL things work together for good. There are NO exceptions except in the
ego’s judgement. Control is a central factor in what the ego permits
into consciousness, and one to which it devotes its maximum vigilance.
This is NOT the way a balanced mind holds together. ITS control is
unconscious. The ego is further off balance by keeping its primary
MOTIVATION unconscious, and raising control rather than sensible
judgement to predominance. The ego has every reason to do this,
according to the thought system which gave rise to it, and which it
serves. Sane judgement would inevitably judge
AGAINST the ego, and must be obliterated BY the ego in the interest of
its self-preservation.

A major source of the ego’s off-balanced state is its lack of
discrimination between impulses from God and from the body. Any thought
system which makes this confusion MUST be insane. Yet this demented state
is ESSENTIAL to the ego, which judges only in terms of threat or
non-threat TO ITSELF. In one sense the ego’s fear of the idea of God is
at least logical, since this idea DOES dispel the ego. Fear of
dissolution from the Higher Source, then, makes SOME sense in ego-terms.
But fear of the body, with which the ego identifies so closely, is more
blatantly senseless.

The body is the ego’s home by its own election. It is the only
identification with which the ego feels safe because the body’s
vulnerability is its own best argument that you CANNOT be of God. This
is the belief that the ego sponsors eagerly. Yet the ego hates the body
because it does not accept the idea that the body is GOOD enough to be
its home. Here is where the mind becomes actually dazed. Being told by
the ego that it is really part of the body and that the body is its
protector, the mind is also constantly informed that the body can NOT
protect it. This, of course, is not only accurate but perfectly obvious.

Therefore the mind asks, “Where can I go for protection?” to which the
ego replies, “Turn to me.” The mind, and not without cause, reminds the
ego that it has itself insisted that it IS identified with the body, so
there is no point in turning to it for protection. The ego has no real
answer to this because there IS none, but it DOES have a typical
solution. It obliterates the QUESTION from the mind’s awareness. Once
unconscious, the question can and does produce uneasiness, but it cannot
be answered because it cannot be ASKED. This is the question which MUST
be asked: “Where am I to go for protection?” Even the insane ask it
unconsciously, but it requires real sanity to ask it consciously.

When the Bible says, “Seek and ye shall find,” it does not mean that you
should seek blindly and desperately for something you would not
recognize. Meaningful seeking is consciously undertaken, consciously
organized, and consciously directed. The goal must be formulated clearly
AND KEPT IN MIND. As a teacher with some
experience, let me remind you that learning and WANTING to learn are
inseparable. All learners learn best when they believe that what they
are trying to learn is of VALUE to them. However, values in this world
are hierarchical, and not everything you may want to learn has lasting
value.

Indeed, many of the things you want to learn are chosen BECAUSE their
value will not last. The ego thinks it is an advantage not to commit
itself to ANYTHING that is eternal because the eternal MUST come from
God. Eternalness is the one function which the ego has tried to develop,
but has systematically failed. It may surprise you to learn that had the
ego wished to do so it could have made the eternal because, as a product
of the mind, it IS endowed with the power of its own creator. However,
the DECISION to do this, rather than the ability to do it, is what the
ego cannot tolerate. That is because the decision, from which the
ability would naturally develop, would necessarily involve accurate
perception, a state of clarity which the ego, fearful of being judged
truly, MUST avoid.

The results of this dilemma are peculiar, but no more so than the
dilemma itself. The ego has reacted characteristically here as elsewhere
because mental illness, which is ALWAYS a form of ego involvement, is
not a matter of reliability as much as of validity. The ego compromises
with the issue of the eternal, just as it does with all issues that
touch on the real question in any way. By compromising in connection
with all TANGENTIAL questions, it hopes to hide the real question AND
KEEP IT OUT OF MIND. The ego’s characteristic busyness with
non-essentials is for precisely that purpose.

Consider the alchemist’s age-old attempts to turn base metal into gold.
The one question which the alchemist did not permit himself to ask was,
“What FOR?” He could not ask this, because it would immediately become
apparent that there was no sense in his efforts even if he succeeded. If
gold became more plentiful its value would decrease, and his own purpose
would be defeated. The ego has countenanced some strange compromises with
the idea of the eternal, making many odd attempts to relate the concept
to the UNimportant, in an effort to satisfy the mind without
jeopardizing itself. Thus, it has permitted minds to devote themselves
to the possibility of perpetual MOTION, but NOT to perpetual thoughts.

Ideational preoccupations with problems set up to be incapable
of solution are also favorite ego devices for impeding the strong-willed
from making real learning progress. The problems of squaring the circle
and carrying pi to infinity are good examples. A more recent ego attempt
is particularly noteworthy. The idea of preserving the BODY by
suspension, thus giving it the kind of limited immortality which the ego
can tolerate, is among its more recent appeals to the mind. It is
noticeable, however, that in all these diversionary tactics, the one
question which is NEVER asked by those who pursue them is, “What FOR?”

This is the question which YOU must learn to ask, in connection with
EVERYTHING your mind wishes to undertake. What is the purpose? Whatever
it is, you cannot doubt that it will channelize your efforts
automatically. When you make a decision of purpose, then, you have made a
decision about your future effort, a decision which will remain in
effect unless you change the DECISION.

Psychologists are in a good position to realize that the ego is capable
of making and accepting as real some very distorted associations. The
confusion of sex with aggression, and the resulting behavior which is
perceived as the same for both, serves as an example. This is
“understandable” to the psychologist, and does not produce surprise. The
lack of surprise, however, is NOT a sign of understanding. It is a
symptom of the psychologist’s ability to accept as reasonable a
compromise which is clearly senseless; to attribute it to the mental
illness of the patient, rather than his own, and to limit his questions
about both the patient AND himself to the trivial.

Such relatively minor confusions of the ego are not among its more
profound misassociations, although they do reflect them. Your egos have
been blocking the more important questions which your minds SHOULD ask.
You do not understand a patient while you yourselves are willing to
limit the questions you raise about HIS mind, because you are also
accepting these limits for YOURS. This makes you unable to heal him AND
yourselves. Be always unwilling to adapt to ANY situation in which
miracle-mindedness is unthinkable. That state in itself is enough to
demonstrate that the perception is wrong.

