---
chapter: Four
ctitle: The Root of all Evil
title: The Escape from Fear
ref: T4.4
---

If you cannot hear the Voice of God, it is because you do not choose to
listen. The fact that you DO listen to the voice of your ego is
demonstrated by your attitudes, your feelings and your behavior. Your
attitudes are obviously conflicted, your feelings have a narrow range on
the negative side but are never purely joyous, and your behavior is
either strained or unpredictable. Yet this is what you WANT. This is
what you are fighting to keep and what you are vigilant to save. Your
minds are filled with schemes to save the face of your egos, and you do
not seek the Face of God. The glass in which the ego seeks to see its
face is dark indeed. How can it maintain the trick of its existence
except with mirrors? But where YOU look to find yourself is up to you.

We have said that you cannot change your mind by changing your behavior,
but we have also said, and many times before, that you CAN change your
mind. When your mood tells you that you have chosen wrongly, and this is
so whenever you are not joyous, then KNOW this need not be. In every
case you have thought wrongly about some Soul that God created, and are
perceiving images your ego makes in a darkened glass. Think honestly
what you have thought that God would NOT have thought, and what you have
NOT thought that God would have you think. Search sincerely for what you
have done and left undone accordingly, and then change your minds TO
THINK WITH GOD’S.

This may seem hard to you, but it is much easier than trying to think
AGAINST It. Your mind IS one with God’s. Denying this and thinking
otherwise has held your ego together, but has literally split your mind.
As a loving brother, I am deeply concerned with your mind, and urge you
to follow my example as you look at yourselves and at each other, and
see in both the glorious creations of a glorious Father.

When you are sad, KNOW THAT THIS NEED NOT BE. Depression ALWAYS arises
ultimately from a sense of being deprived of something you want and do
not have. KNOW you are deprived of nothing except by your own decisions,
and then decide otherwise.

When you are anxious, KNOW that all anxiety comes from the
capriciousness of the ego, AND NEED NOT BE. You can be as vigilant
AGAINST the ego’s dictates as FOR them.

When you feel guilty, KNOW that the ego has indeed violated the laws of
God, but YOU have not. Leave the sins of the ego to me. That is what
Atonement is for. But until you change your mind about those your ego
has hurt, the Atonement cannot release you. As long as you feel guilty
your ego is in command because only the ego CAN experience guilt. THIS
NEED NOT BE.

Watch your mind for the temptations of the ego, and do not be
deceived by it. KNOW it offers you nothing. When you have given up this
voluntary dispiriting, you will see how your mind can focus and rise
above fatigue and heal. Yet you are not sufficiently vigilant AGAINST
the demands of the ego to disengage yourself. THIS NEED NOT BE.

The habit of engaging WITH God and His creations is easily made if you
actively refuse to let your minds slip away. The problem is NOT one of
concentration; it is the belief that no-one, including yourself, is
WORTH consistent effort. Side with me CONSISTENTLY against this
deception, and do not permit this shabby belief to pull you back. The
disheartened are useless to themselves and to me, but only the ego can
BE disheartened. Have you REALLY considered how many opportunities you
have to gladden yourselves, and how many of them you have refused? There
is no limit to the power of a Son of God, but he himself can limit the
expression of his power as much as he chooses.

Your mind and mine can unite in shining your ego away, and releasing the
strength of God into everything you think and will and do. Do not settle
for anything LESS than this, and refuse to accept anything BUT this as
your goal. Watch your minds carefully for ANY beliefs that hinder its
accomplishment, and step away from them. Judge how well you have done
this by your own feelings, for this is the one RIGHT use of judgement.
Judgement, like any other defense, can be used to attack or protect, to
hurt or to heal. The ego SHOULD be brought to your judgement and found
wanting there. Without your own allegiance, protection and love, it
cannot exist. Judge your ego truly and you MUST withdraw allegiance,
protection and love from it.

You are mirrors of truth in which God Himself shines in perfect Light.
To the ego’s dark glass you need but say, “I will not look there because
I KNOW these images are not true.”Then let the Holy One shine on you in
peace, knowing that this and ONLY this must be. His Mind shone on you in
your creation and brought YOUR mind into being. His Mind still shines on
you, and must shine THROUGH you. Your ego cannot prevent HIM from
shining on you, but it CAN prevent you from letting Him shine THROUGH
you.

The first coming of Christ is just another name for the creation, for
Christ is the Son of God. The SECOND coming of Christ means
nothing more than the end of the ego’s rule over part of the minds of
men, and the healing of the mind. I was created like you in the first,
and I have called you to join with me in the second. If you will think
over your lives you will see how carefully the preparations were made. I
am in charge of the Second Coming, and my judgement, which is used only
for protection, cannot be wrong because it NEVER attacks. YOURS is so
distorted that you believe I was mistaken in choosing you. I assure you
this is a mistake of your egos. Do NOT mistake it for humility.

Your egos are trying to convince you that THEY are real and *I* am not,
because if *I* am real, I am no more real than YOU are. That knowledge,
and I assure you that it IS knowledge, means that Christ must come into
your minds and heal them. Although I am NOT attacking your egos, I AM
working with your higher mind whether you are asleep or awake, just as
your ego does with your lower mind. I am your vigilance in this because
you are too confused to recognize your own hope. I was NOT mistaken. Your
minds WILL elect to join with mine, and together we are invincible.

You will yet come together in my name and your sanity will be restored.
I raised the dead by KNOWING that life is an eternal attribute of
everything that the living God created. Why do you believe it is harder
for me to inspire the dispirited, or to stabilize the unstable? *I* do
not believe that there is an order of difficulty in miracles; YOU do. I
have called, and you will answer. I KNOW that miracles are natural
because they are expressions of love. My calling you is as natural as
your answer, and as inevitable.

