---
chapter: Four
ctitle: The Root of all Evil
title: Creation and Communication
ref: T4.7
---

It should be clear by now that, while the content of any particular
ego-illusion does not matter, it is usually more helpful to correct it
in a specific context. Ego-illusions are QUITE specific, although they
frequently change, and although the mind is naturally abstract. The mind
nevertheless becomes concrete voluntarily as soon as it splits. However,
only PART of it splits, so only PART of it is concrete. The concrete
part is the same part that believes in the ego because the ego DEPENDS
on the specific. It is the part that believes your existence means you
are SEPARATE.

Everything the ego perceives is a separate whole, without the
relationships that imply BEING. The ego is thus AGAINST communication,
except in so far as it is utilized to ESTABLISH separateness rather than
to abolish it. The communication system of the ego is based on its own
thought system, as is everything else it dictates. Its communication is
controlled by its need to protect itself, and it will disrupt
communication when it experiences threat. While this is always so,
individual egos perceive different kinds of threat, which are quite
specific in their own judgement. For example, although all forms of
perceived demands may be classified, or judged, by the ego as coercive
communication which must be disrupted, the response of breaking
communication will nevertheless be to a SPECIFIC person or persons.

The specificity of the ego’s thinking, then, results in a spurious kind
of generalization which is really not abstract at all. It will respond
in certain specific ways to ALL stimuli which it perceives as related.
In contrast, the Soul reacts in the same way to everything it knows is
true, and does not respond at all to anything else. Nor does it make any
attempt to ESTABLISH what is true. It knows that what is true is
everything that God created. It is in complete and direct
communication with every aspect of creation because it is in complete
and direct communication with its Creator.

THIS communication IS the Will of God. Creation and communication are
synonymous. God created every mind by communicating His Mind to it, thus
establishing it forever as a channel for the reception of His Mind and
Will. Since only beings of a like order can truly communicate, His
creations naturally communicate WITH Him and LIKE Him. This
communication is perfectly abstract in that its quality is universal in
application, and not subject to ANY judgement, ANY exception, or ANY
alteration. God created you BY this and FOR this. The mind can distort
its function, but it cannot endow itself with functions it was not
given. That is why the mind cannot totally lose the ability to
communicate, even though it may refuse to utilize it on behalf of being.

Existence as well as being rests on communication. Existence, however,
is SPECIFIC in how, what, and with whom communication is judged to be
worth undertaking. Being is completely without these distinctions. It is
a state in which the mind IS in communication with everything that is
real, including the Soul. To whatever extent you permit this state to be
curtailed, you are limiting your sense of your OWN reality, which
becomes total only by your recognizing ALL reality in the glorious
context of its REAL relationship to you. This IS your reality. Do not
desecrate it or recoil from it. It is your real home, your real temple,
and your real Self.

God, Who encompasses ALL being, nevertheless created beings who have
everything individually, but who want to share it to increase their joy.
Nothing that is real can be increased EXCEPT by sharing. That is why God
Himself created you. Divine Abstraction takes joy in application, and
that is what creation MEANS. “How,” “what” and “to whom” are irrelevant
because real creation gives everything, since it can create ONLY like
itself. Remember that in being there is no difference between “having”
and “being,” as there is in existence. In the state of being, the mind
gives everything always.

The Bible repeatedly states that you should praise God. This hardly
means that you should tell Him how wonderful He is. He has no ego with
which to accept such thanks, and no perception with which to judge such
offerings. But unless you take your part in the
creation, His joy is not complete because YOURS is incomplete. And THIS
He does know. He knows it in His own Being and Its experience of His
Son’s experience. The constant GOING OUT of His Love is blocked when His
channels are closed, and He IS lonely when the minds He created do not
communicate fully with Him.

God HAS kept your kingdom for you, but He cannot share His joy with you
until you know it with your whole mind. Even revelation is not enough,
because it is communication FROM God. It is not enough until it is
SHARED. God does not need revelation returned to Him, which would
clearly be impossible, but He DOES want revelation brought to others.
This cannot be done with the actual revelation because its content
cannot be expressed, and it is intensely personal to the mind which
receives it. It can, however, still be returned BY that mind through its
attitudes to OTHER minds which the knowledge from the revelation brings.

God is praised whenever any mind learns to be wholly helpful. This is
impossible without being wholly harmless because the two beliefs
coexist. The truly helpful are invulnerable because they are NOT
protecting their egos, so that nothing CAN hurt them. Their helpfulness
IS their praise of God, and He will return their praise of Him because
they are like Him, and they can rejoice together. God goes out to them
and through them, and there is great joy throughout the Kingdom. Every
mind that is changed adds to this joy with its own individual
willingness to share in it. The truly helpful are God’s miracle workers,
whom I direct until we are all united in the joy of the Kingdom. I will
direct you to wherever you can be truly helpful, and to whoever can
follow my guidance through you.

