---
title: May 20, 2013
ref: T19.7 Pleasure and Pain ( needs formatting )
---

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the
Internet.

We’re reading about the Obstacles to Peace and how to overcome them.  

Tonight it’s going to be my goal to bring home the practicality of what
we’re reading.  Many of you have been studying the Course for many
years.  What I want to be very clear to you, is that the Course is not a
philosophy.  It is not a set of ideas that are pacifying, that give you
a good warm fuzzy feeling and allow you to function in the world with
more ease.

The Course is, at the bottom line, about changing—about being in the
world in a new way, where your behavior is not what it used to be.  To
have changed thoughts with no changed behavior means you’re not in a
position to make any contribution, whatsoever, to the world.

But listen to what we ended up with last week:

I am within your holy relationship, yet you would imprison me behind the
obstacles you raise to freedom, and bar my way to you.  Yet it is not
possible to keep away One Who is there already.

Important!  And to repeat myself, I was there before you took your first
breath.  I have been with you since the Beginning.  I cannot be barred
and you cannot decide to let me in.  I’m here.  I am with you.  You and
I are together, whether you are paying attention or not.”  

. . . it is not possible to keep away One Who is there already.  And in
Him it IS possible that our communion, where we are joined already, will
be the focus of . . .

What? 

. . . the new perception that will bring light to all the world,
contained in YOU.

You’re here to join with me and bring light to all the world.  How?  By
means of new behavior—behavior elicited from our communion, our
relationship.  This means that your behavior is going to be different
from the accepted behaviors of the world.  If they’re not, there will be
no transformation.  It’s that simple.

Now, today was a day of tragedy of, we will say, cataclysmic natural
weather events which caused much tragedy.  And for those of you who
watched the media keeping track of the developments, I would be willing
to bet that you didn’t keep your peace.  I would be willing to bet that
you didn’t feel that your peace was more important than anything
else—the reason being epitomized in a popular statement which says: “If
you’re not upset or disturbed, you don’t understand the situation.”

Obviously, if you chose for your peace and, as a result of that choice,
found yourself where fear and guilt were not occurring, where peace was
present, that would be the equivalent of demonstrating that you didn’t
understand the situation and, therefore, you could not possibly be able
to function in a truly helpful, compassionate way.

It’s not true.  The opposite is what is true.  Without your peace you
cannot be a transformational presence.  Without your peace, you do not
have the presence of Mind—because it’s overridden with by emotion—to
know what would transform, heal and correct the very situation that
seems to call for you to be upset in order to be truly helpful—in order
for you to be a sensitive human being—something you don’t want to lose
the capacity to be.

But if being a sensitive human being means you lose your cool, means you
lose your balance and all you can do is sort of collapse in a heap along
with everyone else who is in the midst of the drama and the trauma,
you're useless.  You’re not able to fulfill your purpose of “bringing
light to all the world.”

Now, let’s be very clear:  When you choose for your peace and you
abandon those things which are obstacles to your peace, you come into a
state of inner balance.  Not a state of incapacity, not a state of
stupidity, but a state of natural spontaneous intelligence.  And you
will know exactly what the practical things to do are . . . what will
meet the human need:  How to bind up the wounds, how to be truly
supportive, how to be involved in a manner which those being helped
recognize as being imbued with Light, imbued with Love that is beyond
their momentary loss and fear and trauma.  And they feel it and are
blessed.  Light is brought into the world.

I am talking here in very practical, I’m going to say, “physical terms”
of providing comfort, or for giving your attention to desiring that
comfort be provided and, in the state of inner balance that I’m talking
about, knowing that it is the Father’s good pleasure to give peace, to
give healing, to undo the illusion of something claiming that fear,
guilt are justified—that being upset is justified.

And so you will not become insensitive, but more sensitive at the level
of the immediate human need as well as the larger scope of awareness of
divine Reality that every single one involved in the drama and trauma is
still embraced by and governed by.  And by which they can have a
transformed experience immediately because God loves them, and they are
what God created them to be, not what they believe themselves to be.
They are more.

Now we mentioned that the starting point—in other words, the measuring
stick that you should have been bringing to your observation of the
events as broadcast in the media, should have brought into play that the
starting point is that “God, Spirit, is all-in-all, and there is no
other might nor Mind.”  That which seemed to be a cataclysmic weather
system does not have more power than the might and Mind that is God,
Spirit. 

This, I’m going to say “mental stance” is what the Course is leading
everyone to, so that you do not succumb to the interpretations and the
definitions that everyone on the media are supplying, and which are
molding your emotions and your reactions.

Now here’s the radical standpoint.  Here’s where you will be in a new
way:  It is by understanding, for example, that being mortal is a
behavior, not a condition.  Again, being mortal is a behavior, not a
condition.  And conversely, being holy is a condition, not a behavior.

You must be willing to stand with yourself and your brother on the basis
that you are holy and holiness is your condition—not a behavior you can
adopt.  And that mortality is not a condition of yours, but is a
behavior you use to misrepresent yourself, and which it’s time for you
to stop using because the misrepresentation of yourself is not
transformational.

Now, in the section: 

PLEASURE AND PAIN

Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of
sacrifice.

Don’t try to do something with the feeling of sacrifice you have when
you decide to do the two-step and yield to the Father.  Abandon it.

Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of
sacrifice.

Just put it on the Holy Spirit’s doorstep and turn your back on it and
walk away!

Sacrifice . . . well, when you practice the two-step, you actively
engage in a practice of choice.  You make a choice between two things:
One is abandoning what you call your free will, and the other is,
yielding to or surrendering to the Father.  It’s that sense of sacrifice
that you need to just stop giving your attention to.  It’s not something
to figure anything out about.  Abandon it so that you can surrender to
God.

That’s being in the world in a new way.

Now what does the word “surrender” mean?  Yield.  But more specifically,
“surrender”—what does it mean?  It means “to yield to the power or
possession of another.”  In other words, it means to let God have the
power and to let yourself be His Possession.  That’s the sacrifice that
you see.  You’re going to give up yourself, you’re going to give up your
right to have your own perceptions—your own perceptions of what
constitute pleasure and pain, for example . . . among other things.  

It’s insulting to the ego and we’ve talked about it before.  It’s
insulting to the ego to surrender—to yield to the Power of the Father,
to let yourself be the Father’s possession . . . which means your giving
up your right to have an independent self-assertive standpoint from
which to be. 

But here’s the incredible truth:  When you surrender to the Father, when
you let yourself become the Father’s possession and you are captive,
when you surrender to the Father by asking Him what to do, or what is
the truth here?  He will release you.  When you let yourself be the
captive of God, God will release you from your captivity—meaning that
you will find yourself being in a new way and, for lack of better words,
at a new “level” in which everything you do is in harmony with Creation
and in harmony with the ongoing creativity of the Father, causing you to
experience not only no loss, but “infinite gain,” for lack of better
words.

This is important.  Think about it: 

When you surrender to the Father and become the Father’s captive by
asking Him—by genuinely asking Him—what to do, and then listening for
and accepting the answer, He will release you.  Now you will be free of
the captivity of the self you thought you became when you got your
divorce from the Father.  You see?  And you become released from the
captivity that you thought you were entering into by surrendering to the
Father.

Now in your release, the Holy Spirit is not separate from you.  That
which is nothing more than your right Mind, is now your right Mind.
This experience is what is embodied in the practice of the holy instant.

But again, it’s going to mean that you’re going to have to be in a new
way right here in the world.  And so it is going to seem to create
difference between you and your Brothers.  But since the difference will
not arise out of the ego, it will be experienced as a blessing.  It will
be experienced as a blessing and others will grow from it.

Now, doing this requires discipline.  It requires you to be willing to
stand in the face of threat, in the face of disaster and move through it
with intelligence, groundedness, and a love that is not distorted by
fear or anxiety or great emotional reaction.  And you’re not used to
this.  You’re not used to facing into the call for intelligence when
unintelligence seems to be governing, or the call for “meeting the need”
when the need seems to be so overwhelming that it can’t be met.

You are not here to study the Course to become ineffective, dreamy,
happily doing nothing when needs need to be met, (said facetiously)
“because you know they’re not real and therefore nothing really needs to
be done and knowing that it’s not real is all that’s required . . .”  

That is not transformational!  And as I’ve said before you can’t get
into the Kingdom of Heaven by yourself.  You’ve got to bring your
Brothers with you.  Which means you’ve got to get involved with your
Brothers in a transformational way.

 Now, pleasure and pain: “Oh, one man’s pain may be another man’s
pleasure.”  Psychologically speaking, one man may hate to work on cars
and fix them and modify them, and another man may love it.  It is his
greatest pleasure.  Another man may hate to work in the fields, while
another man gets great pleasure from it.  Even the same man, as a young
man working for his father on the farm, may find it painful to engage in
the labor of farming.  And as he matures and begins to find the value
and meaning of it, that very same person begins to take great pleasure
in it.

So, here is the thing:  Pain and pleasure are learned.  They’re not
absolute and they are not arising out of the infinite stability of
Creation.  They are not a part of what God has made.  Don’t put such
great value on pain and pleasure.  

Learn to look at your Brothers and Sisters with attentiveness to their
needs so that it is their needs that you attend to by going into and
practicing the holy instant.  Then neither pain nor pleasure will be the
result, but fulfillment will be, and it will never be solitary or
private.

But again, this will not happen unless a stand is taken, unless a choice
is made where you stand in the face of need, whether it is severe or
catastrophic or minimal, and care enough to surrender to God.  

Let yourself become His captive.  Let Him own you because you are His
offspring—you are Him in expression.  And in doing that, you will be
transformational and you will contribute to bringing Light to all the
world, which is the point!  If you are not doing anything to bring Light
to all the world, then you are missing the opportunity for fulfillment
beyond your wildest dreams and your very existence is rendered
meaningless, unfulfilling, because the Father’s Love, the Father’s
clarity is finding no extension through you.

Again: 

Your little part is but to give the Holy Spirit the whole IDEA of
sacrifice. And to accept the peace He gave instead, without the limits
which would hold its extension back, and so would limit YOUR awareness
of it. 

You’re not here to hold His extension back and . . . 

. . . limit YOUR awareness of it. 

You’re here to be the “throughput,” you might say—that which allows it
to flow into expression.  And what you give you get to keep.  It’s a
law.  It’s just the way things work.

For what He gives must be extended, if you would have its limitless
power, and use it for the Son of God's release. 

You see?

. . . use it for the Son of God's release.

Well I tell you, you’re not going to be able to use it for the Son of
God’s release if you are upset and disturbed and think that because of
that you understand the situation.  You use it for the Son of God’s
release by not understanding the situation of terror and destruction and
loss of loved ones, or any other lesser manifestation of tragedy, of
distress.  

It doesn’t have to be the sort of thing that happened today that’s in
the news.  It’s happening everywhere, as a financial crisis, as lack of
jobs, as peoples lives deteriorating and falling apart because there
isn’t enough creativity being allowed that would generate the extension
of that which meets needs and would therefore generate income.

There are distressing things—monumentally distressing things—that are
much quieter than a tornado.  And all of these things call for your
being able to abandon the obstacles to peace.  Why?  So that in the
presence of the turmoil and the catastrophe you have your peace and
therefore the presence of mind—you know, that Mind which is the only
might or Mind—to look at the situation and address it with such
intelligence that it reduces fear and inspires constructive action by
those who were devastated and, as a result, giving them hope.  See?  But
it happens by not agreeing with the situation.  It happens by being in a
new way, a way that you become aware of when you surrender to the Father
in the holy instant.  You see?  

The holy instant isn’t just a nice meditation in which you become quiet
and peaceful and in that peace you ask sweetly, “Father, what is the
truth here.”  Or you ask to know what needs to be done, what holy thing
can you do, what can you do that represents the holy Son of God or your
Brother so that you might feel good.  It’s a lot more active and focused
than that.  And it requires that you put yourself in the position of
being in a new way that opens the door to fulfillment that is new to you
and therefore is transforming to everyone else.  That is the wonder of
it.  That is the miracle of the Course In Miracles.  That’s the point.

. . . what He gives must be extended, if you would have its limitless
power, and use it for the Son of God's release.  It is not this you
would be rid of, and having it you CANNOT limit it. If peace is
homeless, so are you and so am I. And He Who is our home is homeless
WITH us. 

[Repeats]  It is not this [that] you would be rid of, . .

It isn’t something, perhaps, that you’ve thought about taking hold of,
even though you may not have ever thought about getting rid of it.  But
in order to have the limitless power of the gift of Love extended, you
must use it for your Brother’s release.  This is not something you would
actually be rid of.  You wouldn’t choose to be rid of it.  You can’t
choose to be rid of it, because then it would mean that peace would be
homeless.  And peace cannot be homeless.  Therefore, it never has been
homeless.  And therefore, regardless of what you think, you have never
wished to be rid of the capacity to make the gift of the Father’s Love
that expresses limitless power.  You see?

. . . He Who is our home is homeless WITH us. 

. . . if he could be, if these things could be.

Is this your will? 

“Well, I never really thought about it, hm-m-m.  I’ll have to give that
some thought.”

Is this your will? 

No, it can’t be your will, because it expresses something impossible and
it elicits an effect that can’t actually really happen, even though
you’ve fooled yourselves into believing that it has happened and is
true, and is therefore justification for being upset or disturbed, and
is therefore justification for not choosing for your peace because you
don’t want to be an insensitive human being.  You see?  None of it makes
sense.

Would you forever be a wanderer in search of peace? 

No, not really.  But you will seem to be until you make a choice, until
you’re ready to make a stand with the Father after having surrendered to
the Father, so that you might know how to stand in your peace in the
face of great need without being moved by it into an ineffectual frame
of mind that’s governed by fear and emotion and is totally useless.

Would you invest your hope of peace and happiness in what MUST fail? 

Well, no.  Of course you wouldn’t.  But you didn’t realize that it would
have to fail because it’s an attempt to do something impossible.  Now
you do, and that means that you’re in a position to make an intelligent
choice and stand by it and be in the world in a new way.

Hey, it may be hard work to work in the fields.  But when you engage in
it willingly, bringing your attention to it with gratitude in your
heart, the laboriousness of it gives way to the pleasure of, for lack of
better words, “being effective,” being meaningful, being a part of that
which is Life.  You see?

Faith in the eternal is always justified, . .

“Oh come on, what does the eternal have to do with the tragedy that
happened today?  What about the deaths?  What about the children that
were crushed under the walls?”  And so on and so forth.  “What the hell
does the eternal have to do with anything right now?  I feel justifiably
upset and my heart aches for the parents.  I know how I would feel if it
happened to me.”  Yes, you do.  And to know how they feel is important.
But to be moved by it to the point where you lose your balance and your
ability to feel your peace so that you might have a stable mind with
which to respond effectively, that is stupid.  That is not what you
would choose for and that is not what this is about.

It is about having the courage not to react but to find your intelligent
peace, so that you might act consciously, constructively and helpfully.
That takes determination.  And that’s what you’re learning about through
the study of the Course, because it’s not just beautiful theory.  It’s
about that which motivates change in you so that you do become the
extender of the Father’s Love in transformational . . . truly
transformational ways.

Faith in the eternal . . . 

. . . right in the face of the tragedy, is always justified.  Why?
Because it will help you move out of and free of the influence of pure,
raw, uncontrolled emotion which intelligence is not governing, but which
overrules or overrides intelligence and the capacity to act truly
helpfully.  You see?

Faith in the eternal is always justified, for the eternal is forever
kind, infinite in its patience, and wholly loving. 

Well, I know you can justify the presence of that which is loving and
patient with those who are suffering from tragedy.  [But,] how are you
going to extend it if you’re caught up in the same reactions they are?
You’re not.  Don’t miss your opportunity to express your holiness by
reflecting the Father in the middle of the tragedy.

It . . . 

. . . faith and the eternal . . .

. . . will accept you wholly, and give you peace. Yet . . .

. . . and here is the key . . .

. . . it can unite only with what ALREADY is at peace in you, immortal
as itself. 

Faith in the eternal . . .

. . . can unite only with what ALREADY is at peace in you, . .

. . . so you must take the time and put forth the effort it takes to
find your peace and abandon the reaction.

So that faith in the eternal . . .

. . . can unite only with what ALREADY is at peace in you, . .

. . . because what is already at peace in you is . . .

. . . immortal as itself. The body can bring you neither peace nor
turmoil; neither pain nor joy.

Those are all learned meanings, not actual things.

 It is a means, . .

. . . the body is . . .

. . . and not an end. It has NO purpose of itself, . .

As I’ve said before, it’s simply the visibility and tangibility of your
Individuality.  It has no goal or purpose other than to identify your
presence, which is the Presence of God.

It . . . is a means, . .

. . . the body . . .

is a means, and not an end. It has NO purpose of itself, but only what
is given to it. The body will seem to be whatever is the means for
reaching the goal that you assign to it. 

[Repeats] . . . goals that you assign to it.  

The goals that get assigned to it will be different depending upon
whether you’ve surrendered to God or whether you are asserting your
orphanhood.

Peace and guilt are both conditions of the mind, to be attained. And
these conditions are the home of the emotion which called them forth,
and therefore is compatible with them. But  . . .

. . . and this is the big “but” . . .

. . . think you which it is that is compatible with YOU.

Now I’m going to end here this evening.  Again:

. . . think you which it is that is compatible with YOU.

Who are you?  The holy Son of God, or a mortal?  How can you be a
behavior?  Being mortal is a behavior, not a condition.  You can only be
holy.  That is a condition, not a behavior.  

And so you must choose that which is compatible with you.  And then you
must be willing to stand there.  And you must practice standing there,
approaching your world from that stand point . . . what? . . as a result
of having surrendered to the Father in the holy instant and learned of
the Father what you need to do, so that you might be released from
bondage that is not yours—bondage which causes you to be ineffective,
useless and meaningless in the world as far as bringing Light to all the
world.

This is a pep talk tonight, not a scathing criticism.  It is an
encouragement to you to find out how to labor in the field and find the
Meaning of it, so that fulfillment fills you because you haven’t
contributed to the ongoingness of the suffering human condition, but are
actually bringing into play that which brings Light to all the world.

I love you very much and I look forward to being with you next time.

Chapter 19 – Section: PLEASURE AND PAIN Sparkly Book – p.466   /   JCIM
– p.195   /   CIMS – p.392 Chapter 19 – Section:  THE ATTRACTION OF PAIN
First Edition  –  p. (?)   /    Second Edition – p.414

