---
title: Nov 3, 2013
ref: Discussion ( needs formatting )
---

  Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
internet.

Last week we talked about something very important, not just the value
of Love, but the practice of Love.  

I said repeatedly, love one another . . . love one another.  Make a
point more than you’ve ever done before to love one another instead of
what you spontaneously tend to do when you’re preoccupied with yourself
or your situation or with your distress with others that you’re called
upon to love.

Tonight I’m going to speak about one particular practice that
effectively gets in the way of loving one another.  And as a result, our
Gathering tonight is likely to be shorter than usual.  I’m only going to
discuss this one facet, because if you will pay attention closely and
watch yourself during the coming week, you will find that avoiding this
practice will take up a great deal of your time and will also provide
the – I’m going to say – engine for transformation, for making changes
so that you are more able to love one another well.

Now tell me . . . when you’re involved with someone and you say
something and they respond and it’s obvious from what they said that
they didn’t hear a thing you had said, it doesn’t leave you with a
feeling of being loved, does it.  It leaves you with a feeling of being
estranged, of somehow standing outside of what appears to be a
relationship you’re involved in because you are supposedly communicating
with each other – conversing.

And so the correction to this problem lies in making a point of staying
present, staying present with those you are with so that you do not
leave them feeling estranged.  

Staying present is another way of saying:  Look at your brother with
innocent eyes.  Listen to your brother with innocent ears . . . not with
preconceptions.

If you will pay attention during this coming week, you will find that a
lot of your time when you are involved with others is spent thinking.
In fact one of the modes of thinking that you bring into play when
you’re with another is to interpret what your brother or sister is
saying.  You see?  You listen to what is being said and in your mind you
think, “well, based upon her background or based upon his experience,
he’s likely to be meaning this or that or the other thing.”  And then
you respond not to what they meant but to your interpretation of them.  

And so you’re having this conversation with yourself and leaving your
brother out because you’re not present with your brother.

One of the greatest disservices you can bring into play in your
relationships is to interpret what another means.

Now there’s a benefit to this.  If you interpret what they mean based
upon your assessment of their background, their upbringing, their
life-style and so on, you are not present with them.  Not being present
with them means you’re incapable of loving them.  You’re not in the
space or the frame of mind to actually love one another.  

Being present means not using interpretations to distance yourself from
your brother or sister – to keep the involvement minimal and therefore
less messy.  You don’t want to get too involved.  And so you will come
up with an interpretation and then usually your response will be some
sort of cliché or thought that talks away what it is you thought they
meant.

To love one another means really being present with them.  It means
listening to them without thinking.  It means listening to them so that
you might simply grasp what they are simply meaning.  And I promise you
they are simply meaning something.  You might believe that there are
complex psychological factors coming into play behind what they’re
saying and you might think that in order to be truly loving you must
discern what the complexities are so that you can bring out the answers
that reduce the complexities.

But once again, you’re not present with them and they know it.  Just
like when they do that to you, they aren’t present with you and you know
it.

You don’t need to protect yourself against intimacy by not paying close
attention to what your brother is sharing about himself.  You don’t need
that.  That just keeps the separation going.  That keeps the dissonance
of no love going.  It’s not what you want.  And it’s not only
unnecessary, it’s destructive.   You understand?  

Interpreting what your brother means disconnects you from your brother.
It disconnects you from each other.  That is not the definition of
loving one another.

Oh, I know . . . if you really allow intimacy to occur, things are
really going to get messy, because of course – and here’s your mindset –
your brother is nothing but a collection of psychological habits and
concepts themselves and they’re unclear.  And if you’re going to be
intimate with them, you’re going to be intimate with their lack of
clarity, their confusion.  And you’re likely to get sucked in.

Well, unless you let yourself get into that place where your fear of
being sucked in can happen, you won’t find yourself experiencing real
clarity about your brother . . . clarity that is simple and that allows
you to speak to your brother so that your brother recognizes that you
understand, that you’re not a stranger, that you’re not from some other
planet or some other foreign mindset.  And so you don’t have the chance
to find defenselessness brought into play by virtue of the innocence
with which you’re being present with your brother or sister.  And so, no
healing occurs.

And if you thought that your brother in his confusion was stubborn, you
will be further convinced that he is stubborn because he obviously
doesn’t recognize the value of what you’re saying.  Of course he
doesn’t, because again, you’re responding to your interpretation rather
than being in response to an actual connection with your brother in the
simplicity of his Being.

Now all of you are going to have to get past this.  You are going to
need to pay attention so that you can see that, indeed, you do this.
You will be amazed to find out what kind of clarity and simplicity will
come forth from your involvement with others when you abandon indulging
in interpreting what they mean.

Be with your brother.  And when your brother says something, whether
it’s pleasant or unpleasant, no matter what it is . . . when your
brother says something, remember that you’re not there to immediately
think of an answer that addresses what you think they said.  Let
yourself hesitate before you open your mouth and say a word.  And
remember that unless you are willing to look with innocent eyes or hear
with innocent ears, you’re not going to have a fair chance of
understanding.  

You know, sometimes all that’s needed is to be understood.  Sometimes
providing a correction is not what heals.  Sometimes innocent
non-judgmental presence that can be felt as being genuine is all it
takes.  It certainly is all it takes in order for a meaningful
relationship to grow that isn’t weighed down with your great
intellectual capacity to reason and interpret.  You see?

Love . . . love means being with your brother, not knowing how to see
his innocence but realizing that that is your purpose in that moment.
And that the way to experience it is to stay out of the way yourself and
let your . . . well again, your innocent vision provide you with the
means to be in your peace and in your genuineness from the tips of your
toes, because you have no agenda, no agenda created by your fantastic
interpretations.

Love one another.  Love one another by neglecting to insert your
thinking in between the two of you.  It’s that simple.  But you’re going
to have to risk the chance of getting that intimate might cause you to
be in a place you don’t like because your interpretation of it lacks
clarity, period.

Do it!  So that you might find that in your innocence and in your
genuineness, your brother’s innocence and genuineness can come forth in
ways you could never have logically or intellectually imagined or come
up with as a result of great skill at interpreting.

Simplify your involvements with each other by daring to be present with
each other without thinking, but with a desire to Know the truth – to
know what’ really happening.

It’s an easy practice to engage in.  Nothing complicated about it.
Every single one of you can do it.  Don’t even ask yourself why you’re
not, when you find that you’re not doing it.  Just take it as a signal
that you need to return to your innocent perceptions by abandoning
interpreting your brother.

A simple lesson.  It will keep you busy.  And it will cause a lot of
growth – a lot of learning – which will move you beyond anything you
thought you could accomplish in a week.  And I will be with you, all of
you, as you go through your week, loving you and supporting you in your
fearlessness at practicing innocence.

I love you very much.  And I look forward to being with you next time.

Raj did not read from the Course tonight
