---
chapter: Thirty
ctitle: The New Beginning
title: The Only Purpose
ref: T30.5
---

The real world is the state of mind in which the only purpose of the
world is seen to be forgiveness. Fear is not its goal, and the ESCAPE
from guilt becomes its aim. The value of forgiveness is perceived, and
takes the place of idols, which are sought no longer, for their “gifts”
are not held dear. No rules are idly set, and no demands are made of
anyone or anything to twist and fit into the dream of fear. Instead,
there is a wish to understand all things created as they really are. And
it is recognized that all things must be first forgiven, and THEN
understood.

Here, it is thought that understanding is ACQUIRED by attack. There, it
is clear that by attack is understanding LOST. The folly of pursuing
guilt as goal is fully recognized. And idols are not wanted there, for
guilt is understood as the sole cause of pain in any form. No-one is
tempted by its vain appeal, for suffering and death have been perceived
as things not wanted, and not striven for. The possibility of freedom
has been grasped and welcomed, and the means by which it can be gained
can now be understood. The world becomes a place of hope, because its
only purpose is to be a place where hope of happiness can be fulfilled.
And no-one stands outside this hope, because the world has been united
in belief the purpose of the world is one which all must share, if hope
be more than just a dream.

Not yet is Heaven quite remembered, for the purpose of forgiveness still
remains. Yet everyone is certain he will go beyond forgiveness, and he
but remains until it is made perfect in himself. He has no wish for
anything but this. And fear has dropped away, because he is united in
his purpose with himself. There is a hope of happiness in him so sure
and constant he can barely stay, and wait a little longer with his feet
still touching earth. Yet is he glad to wait till every hand is joined,
and every heart made ready to arise and go with him. For thus is He made
ready for the step in which is all forgiveness left behind.

The final step is God’s, because it is but God Who could create a
perfect Son, and share His Fatherhood with him. No-one outside of Heaven
knows how this can be, for understanding this is Heaven itself. Even the
real world has a purpose still beneath creation and eternity. But fear
is gone, because its purpose is forgiveness, not idolatry. And so is
Heaven’s Son prepared to be Himself, and to remember that the Son of God
knows everything his Father understands, and understands it perfectly
with Him.

The real world still falls short of this, for this is God’s Own purpose;
only His, and yet completely shared and perfectly fulfilled. The real
world is a state in which the mind has learned how easily do idols go
when they are still perceived, but wanted not. How willingly the mind
can let them go when it has understood that idols are nothing and
nowhere, and are purposeless. For only then can guilt and sin be seen
without a purpose, and as meaningless.

Thus is the real world’s purpose gently brought into awareness, to
replace the goal of sin and guilt. And all that stood between your image
of yourself and what you are, forgiveness washes joyfully away. Yet God
need not create His Son again, that what is his be given back to him.
The gap between your brother and yourself was never THERE. And what the
Son of God knew in creation he must know again.

When brothers join in purpose in the world of fear, they stand already
at the edge of the real world. Perhaps they still look back, and think
they see an idol that they want. Yet has their path been surely set away
from idols toward reality. For when they joined their hands, it was
Christ’s hand they took, and they will look on Him Whose hand they hold.
The face of Christ is looked upon before the Father is remembered. For
He must be unremembered till His Son has reached beyond forgiveness, to
the love of God. Yet is the love of Christ accepted first. And then will
come the knowledge They are One.

How light and easy is the step across the narrow boundaries of the world
of fear, when you have recognized Whose hand you hold! Within your hand
is everything you need to walk with perfect confidence away from fear
forever, and to go straight on, and quickly reach the gate of Heaven
itself. For He Whose hand you hold was waiting but for you to join Him.
Now that you have come, would HE delay in showing you the way that He
must walk with you? His blessing lies on you as surely as His Father’s
love rests upon Him. His gratitude to you is past your understanding,
for you have enabled Him to rise from chains, and go with you, together,
to His Father’s house.

An ancient hate is passing from the world. And with it goes all hatred
and all fear. Look back no longer, for what lies ahead is all you ever
wanted in your hearts. Give up the world! But not to sacrifice. You never
WANTED it. What happiness have you sought here that did not bring you
pain? What moment of content has not been bought at
fearful price in coins of suffering? Joy HAS no cost. It is your sacred
right, and what you pay for is not happiness. Be speeded on your way by
honesty, and let not your experiences here deceive in retrospect. They
were not free from bitter cost and joyless consequence.

Do not look back except in honesty. And when an idol tempts you, think
of this:

> “There never was a time an idol brought You anything except the
> “gift” of guilt. Not one was bought except at cost of pain, Nor was it
> ever paid by you alone.”

Be merciful unto your brother, then. And do not choose an idol
thoughtlessly, remembering that he will pay the cost as well as you. For
he will be delayed when you look back, and you will not perceive Whose
loving hand you hold. Look forward, then, and walk in confidence, with
happy hearts that beat in hope and do not pound in fear.

The Will of God forever lies in those whose hands are joined. Until they
joined, they thought He was their enemy. But when they joined and shared
a purpose, they were free to learn their will is one. And thus the Will
of God must reach to their awareness. Nor can they forget for long that
it is but their own.

