---
chapter: Thirty
ctitle: The New Beginning
title: Rules for Decision
ref: T30.1
---

Decisions are continuous. You do not always know when you are making
them. But with a little practice with the ones you recognize, a set
begins to form which sees you through the rest. It is not wise to let
yourself become preoccupied with every step you take. The proper set,
adopted consciously each time you wake, will put you well ahead. And if
you find resistance strong and dedication weak, you are not ready. DO
NOT FIGHT YOURSELF. But think about the kind of day you want, and tell
yourself there IS a way in which this very day can happen just like
that. Then try again to have the day you want.

1.  The outlook starts with this:

    *“Today I will make no decisions by myself.”*

    This means that you are choosing not to be the judge of what to do.
    But it must also mean you will not judge the situations where you will
    be called upon to make response. For if you judge them, you have set
    the rules for how you should react to them. And then another answer
    cannot but produce confusion and uncertainty and fear.

    This is your major problem now. You still make up your mind, and THEN
    decide to ask what you should do. And what you hear may not resolve
    the problem as YOU saw it first. This leads to fear because it
    contradicts what you perceive, and so you feel attacked. And therefore
    angry. There are rules by which this will not happen. But it does occur
    at first, while you are learning how to hear.

2.  Throughout the day, at any time you think of it, and have a quiet
    moment for reflection, tell yourself again the kind of day you want;
    the feelings you would have, the things you want to happen to you,
    and the things you would experience, and say,

    *“If I make no decision by myself,*<br/>
    *This is the kind of day that will be GIVEN me.”*

    These two procedures, practiced well, will serve to let you be
    directed without fear, for opposition will not first arise and then
    become a problem in itself.

    But there will still be times when you have judged already. Now the
    answer will provoke attack, unless you quickly straighten out your
    mind to want an answer that will work. Be certain this has happened if
    you feel yourself unwilling to sit by, and ask to have the answer
    given you. This means you HAVE decided by yourself, and cannot see the
    QUESTION. Now you need a quick restorative before you ask.

3.  Remember once again the day you want, and recognize that something
    has occurred which is not part of it. Then realize that you have
    asked a question by yourself, and must have set an
    answer in your terms. Then say,

    *“I HAVE no question. I forgot what to decide.”*

    This cancels out the terms which you have set, and lets the ANSWER
    show you what the question must have really been.

    Try to observe this rule without delay, despite your opposition. For
    you have ALREADY gotten angry, and your fear of being answered in a
    different way from what your version of the questions asks will gain
    momentum, until you believe the day you want is one in which you get
    YOUR answer to YOUR question. And you will not get it, for it would
    destroy the day by robbing you of what you REALLY want. This can be
    very hard to realize, when once you have decided by yourself the rules
    which promise you a happy day. Yet this decision still can be undone,
    by simple methods which you can accept.

4.  If you are so unwilling to receive you cannot even let your question
    go, you can begin to change your mind with this:

    *“At least I can decide I do not LIKE what I feel now.”*

    This much is obvious, and paves the way for the next easy step.

5.  Having decided that you do not like the way you feel, what could be
    easier than to continue with,

    *“And so I HOPE I have been wrong.”*

    This works against the sense of opposition, and reminds you that help
    is not being thrust upon you, but is something that you want and that
    you need, because you do not like the way you feel. This tiny opening
    will be enough to let you go ahead with just a few more steps you need
    to let yourself be helped.

    Now you have reached the turning-point, because it has occurred to you
    that YOU will gain if what you have decided is not so. Until this
    point is reached, you will believe your happiness depends on being
    RIGHT. But this much reason have you now attained; you would be better
    off if you were WRONG.

6.  This tiny grain of wisdom will suffice to take you further. You are
    not coerced, but merely hope to get a thing you want. And you can
    say in perfect honesty,

    *“I WANT another way to look at this.”*

    Now you have changed your mind about the day, and have remembered what
    you REALLY want. Its purpose has no longer been obscured by the insane
    belief you want it for the goal of being right when you are wrong.
    Thus is the readiness for asking brought to your awareness, for you
    cannot be in conflict when you ask for what you want, and see that it
    IS this for which you ask.

7.  This final step is but acknowledgment of lack of opposition to be
    helped. It is a statement of an open mind, not certain yet, but
    willing to be shown:

    *“Perhaps there IS another way to look at this. What can I LOSE by
    asking?”*

Thus you now can ask a question that makes sense, and so the answer
will make sense as well. Nor will you fight against it, for you see
that it is YOU who will be helped by it.

It must be clear that it is easier to have a happy day if you prevent
unhappiness from entering at all. But this takes practice in the rules
which will protect you from the ravages of fear. When this has been
achieved, the sorry dream of judgement has forever been undone. But
meanwhile, you have need for practicing the rules for its undoing. Let
us, then, consider once again the very first of the decisions which
are offered here.

We said you can begin a happy day with the determination not to make
decisions by yourself. This seems to be a real decision in itself. And
yet, you CANNOT make decisions by yourself. The only question really
is with WHAT you choose to make them. That is really all. The first
rule, then, is not coercion, but a simple statement of a simple fact.
You will not make decisions by yourself WHATEVER you decide. For they
are made with idols or with God. And you ask help of Christ or
anti-Christ, and which you choose will join with you, and tell you
what to do.

Your day is not at random. It is set by what you choose to live it
with, and how the friend whose counsel you have sought perceives
your happiness. You always ask advice before you can decide on anything.
Let THIS be understood, and you can see there cannot be coercion here,
nor grounds for opposition that you may be free. There IS no freedom
from what must occur. And if you think there is, you must be wrong.

The second rule as well is but a fact. For you and your advisor must
agree on what you want before it can occur. It is but this AGREEMENT
which permits all things to happen. Nothing can be caused without some
form of union, be it with a dream of judgement or the Voice for God.
Decisions cause results BECAUSE they are not made in isolation. They are
made by you and your advisor, for yourself, and for the world as
well. The day you want you offer to the world, for it will be what you
have asked for, and will reinforce the rules of your advisor in the
world. Whose kingdom is the world for you today? What kind of day will
you decide to have?

It needs but two who would have happiness this day to promise it to all
the world. It needs but two to understand that they cannot decide alone,
to guarantee the joy they asked for will be wholly shared. For they have
understood the basic law that makes decision powerful, and gives it all
effects that it will ever have. It needs but two. These two are joined
before there CAN be a decision. Let this be the one reminder that you
keep in mind, and you will have the day you want, and give it to the
world by having it yourself. Your judgement has been lifted from the
world by your decision for a happy day. And as you have received, so
must you give.

