---
chapter: Twenty Eight
ctitle: The Undoing of Fear
title: The Present Memory
ref: T28.1
---

The Holy Spirit can indeed make use of memory, for God Himself is there.
Yet this is not a memory of past events, but only of a present state. You
are so long accustomed to believe that memory holds only what is past,
that it is hard for you to realize it is a skill that can remember NOW.
The limitations on remembering the world imposes on it are as vast as
those you let the world impose on you. There IS no link of memory to the
past. If you would have it there, then there it is. But only your DESIRE
made the link, and only you have held it to a part of time where guilt
appears to linger still.

The Holy Spirit’s use of memory is quite apart from time. He does not
seek to use it as a means to keep the past, but rather as a way to let
it GO. Memory holds the message it receives, and does what it is given
it to do. It does not write the message, nor appoint what it is for.
Like to the body, it is purposeless within itself. And if it seems to
serve to cherish ancient hate, and offers you the pictures of injustices
and hurts which you were saving, this is what you asked its message be,
and this is what it is. Committed to its vaults, the history of all the
body’s past is hidden there. All of the strange associations made to
keep the past alive, the present dead, are stored within it, waiting
your command that they be brought to you, and lived again. And thus do
their effects appear to be increased by time, which took away their
cause.

Yet time is but another phase of what does nothing. It works hand in
hand with all the other attributes with which you seek to keep concealed
the truth about yourself. Time neither takes away nor can restore. And
yet you make strange use of it, as if the past had caused the present,
which is but a consequence in which no change can be made possible,
because its cause has gone. Yet change must have a cause that will
endure, or else it will not last. No change can be made in the present,
if its cause is past. Only the past is held in memory as you make use of
it, and so it is a way to hold the past AGAINST the now.

Remember NOTHING that you taught yourself, for you were
badly taught. And who would keep a senseless lesson in his mind, when he
can learn and can preserve a better one? When ancient memories of hate
appear, remember that their cause is gone. And so you cannot understand
what they are for. Let not the cause that you would give them now be
what it was which made them what they were, or seemed to be. Be glad
that it is gone, for this is what you would be pardoned from. And see,
instead, the new effects of cause accepted NOW, with consequences HERE.
They will surprise you with their loveliness. The ancient new ideas they
bring will be the happy consequences of a cause so ancient that it far
exceeds the span of memory which your perception sees.

This is the Cause the Holy Spirit has remembered for you, when you would
forget. It is not past because He let It not be unremembered. It has
never changed because there never was a time in which He did not keep It
safely in your mind. Its consequences will indeed seem new, because you
thought that you remembered not their Cause. Yet was It never absent
from your mind, for it was not your Father’s Will that He be
unremembered by His Son.

What YOU remember never was. It came from causelessness which you
confused with cause. It can deserve but laughter, when you learn you
have remembered consequences which were causeless, and could NEVER be
effects. The miracle reminds you of a Cause forever present, perfectly
untouched by time and interference. Never changed from what It IS. And
YOU are its effects, as changeless and as perfect as Itself. Its memory
does not lie in the past, nor waits the future. It is not revealed in
miracles. They but remind you that It has not gone. When you forgive It
for your sins, It will no longer be denied.

You who have sought to lay a judgement of your own Creator cannot
understand it is not He Who laid a judgement on His Son. You would deny
Him His effects, yet have they never been denied. There was no time in
which His Son could be condemned for what was causeless, and against His
Will. What your remembering would witness to is but the fear of God. He
has not done the thing you fear. No more have you. And so your innocence
has not been lost. You need no healing to be healed. In quietness, see
in the miracle a lesson in allowing Cause to have Its OWN effects, and
doing nothing that would interfere.

The miracle comes quietly into the mind that stops an instant, and is
still. It reaches gently from that quiet time, and from the mind it
healed in quiet then, to other minds to share its quietness. And they
will join in doing nothing to prevent its radiant extension back into
the Mind Which caused all minds to be. Born out of sharing, there can be
no pause in time to cause the miracle delay in hastening to all unquiet
minds, and bringing them an instant’s stillness, when the memory of God
returns to them. Their own remembering is quiet now, and what has come
to take its place will not be wholly unremembered afterwards.

He to Whom time is given offers thanks for every quiet instant given
Him. For in that instant is His memory allowed to offer all its
treasures to the Son of God, for whom they have been kept. How gladly
does He offer them unto the one for whom He has been given them! And His
Creator shares His thanks, because He would not be deprived of His
effects. The instant’s silence that His Son accepts gives welcome to
eternity and Him, and lets Them enter where They would abide. For in
that instant does the Son of God do nothing that would make himself
afraid.

How instantly the memory of God arises in the mind that has no fear to
keep the memory away. Its own remembering has gone. There is no past to
keep its fearful image in the way of glad awakening to present peace.
The trumpets of eternity resound throughout the stillness, yet disturb
it not. And what is now remembered is not fear, but, rather, is the
cause that fear was made to render unremembered and undone. The
stillness speaks in gentle sounds of love the Son of God remembers from
before his own remembering came in between the present and the past, to
shut them out.

Now is the Son of God at last aware of present Cause and Its benign
effects. Now does he understand what he has made is causeless, making no
effects at all. He has done nothing. And in seeing this, he understands
he never had a need for doing anything, and never did. His Cause IS Its
effects. There never was a cause beside It that could generate a
different past or future. Its effects are changelessly eternal, beyond
fear, and past the world of sin entirely.

What has been lost, to see the causeless not? And where is sacrifice,
when memory of God has come to take the place of loss?
What better way to close the little gap between illusions and reality
than to allow the memory of God to flow across it, making it a bridge an
instant will suffice to reach beyond? For God has closed it with
Himself. His memory has not gone by, and left a stranded Son forever on
a shore where he can glimpse another shore which he can never reach. His
Father wills that he be lifted up, and gently carried over. HE has built
the bridge, and it is He Who will transport His Son across it. Have no
fear that He will fail in what He wills. Nor that you be excluded from
the Will that is for you.

