---
chapter: Twenty Eight
ctitle: The Undoing of Fear
title: The Agreement to Join
ref: T28.3
---

What waits in perfect certainty beyond salvation is not our concern. For
you have barely started to allow your first, uncertain steps to be
directed up the ladder separation led you down. The miracle alone is your
concern at present. Here is where we must begin. And having started,
will the way be made serene and simple in the rising up to waking and
the ending of the dream. When you accept a miracle, you do not add your
dream of fear to one that is already being dreamed. Without support, the
dream will fade away without effects. For it is YOUR support that
strengthens it.

No mind is sick until another mind agrees that they are separate. And
thus it is their JOINT decision to be sick. If you withhold agreement,
and accept the part YOU play in making sickness real, the other mind
cannot project its guilt without your aid in letting it perceive itself
as separate and apart from you. Thus is the body not perceived as sick
by both your minds, from separate points of view. Uniting with a
brother’s mind prevents the CAUSE of sickness and perceived effects.
Healing is the effect of minds which join, as sickness comes from minds
which separate.

The miracle does nothing just BECAUSE the minds are joined, and cannot
separate. Yet in the dreaming has this been reversed, and separate minds
are seen as bodies, which are separated and which cannot join. Do not
allow your brother to be sick, for if he is, have you abandoned him to
his own dream by sharing it with him. He has not seen the cause of
sickness where it is, and you have overlooked the gap between you, where
the sickness has been bred. Thus are you JOINED in sickness, to preserve
the little gap unhealed, where sickness is kept carefully protected,
cherished, and upheld by firm belief, lest God should come to bridge the
little gap that leads to Him. Fight not His coming with illusions, for
it is His coming that you want above all things that seem to glisten in
the dream.

The end of dreaming is the end of fear, and love was never in the world
of dreams. The gap IS little. Yet it holds the seeds of pestilence and
every form of ill, because it is a wish to keep apart, and not to join.
And thus it seems to give a cause to sickness which is NOT its cause. The
PURPOSE of the gap is all the cause that sickness has. For it was made
to keep you separated, in a body which you see as if IT were the cause
of pain.

The cause of pain is separation, not the body, which is only its effect.
Yet separation is but empty space, enclosing nothing, doing nothing, and
as unsubstantial as the empty place between the ripples that a ship has
made in passing by. And covered just as fast, as water rushes in to
close the gap, and as the waves, in joining, cover it. Where is the gap
between the waves when they have joined, and covered up the space which
seemed to keep them separate for a little while? Where are the grounds
for sickness when the minds have joined to close the little gap between
them, where the seeds of sickness seemed to grow?

God builds the bridge, but only in the space left clean and vacant by
the miracle. The seeds of sickness and the shame of guilt He cannot
bridge, for He cannot destroy the alien will that He created not. Let
its effects be gone, and clutch them not with eager hands, to keep them
for yourself. The miracle will brush them all aside, and thus make room
for Him Who wills to come, and bridge His Son’s returning to Himself.

Count, then, the silver miracles and golden dreams of happiness
as all the treasures you would keep within the storehouse of the
world. The door is open, not to thieves, but to your starving brothers,
who mistook for gold the shining of a pebble, and who stored a heap of
snow that shone like silver. They have nothing left behind the open
door. What is the world except a little gap perceived to tear eternity
apart, and break it into days and months and years? And what are you who
live within the world except a picture of the Son of God in broken
pieces, each concealed within a separate and uncertain bit of clay?

Be not afraid, but let your world be lit by miracles. And where the gap
was seen to stand between you, join your brother there. And sickness
will be seen WITHOUT a cause. The dream of healing in forgiveness lies,
and gently shows you that you never sinned. The miracle would leave no
proof of guilt to bring you witness to what never was. And in your
storehouse it will make a place of welcome for your Father and your
Self. The door is open, that all those may come who would no longer
starve, and would enjoy the feast of plenty set before them there. And
they will meet with your invited Guests the miracle has asked to come to
you.

This is a feast unlike indeed to those the dreaming of the world has
shown. For here, the more that anyone receives, the more is left for all
the rest to share. The Guests have brought unlimited supply with Them.
And no-one is deprived or can deprive. Here is a feast the Father lays
before His Son, and shares it equally with him. And in Their sharing
there can BE no gap in which abundance falters and grows thin. Here can
the lean years enter not, for time waits not upon this feast, which has
no end. For Love has set Its table in the space that seemed to keep your
Guests apart from you.

