---
chapter: Twenty Eight
ctitle: The Undoing of Fear
title: The Beautiful Relationship
ref: T28.7
---

God asks for nothing, and His Son, like Him, need ask for nothing. For
there is no lack in him. An empty space, a little gap, would be a lack.
And it is only there that he could want for something he has not. A
space where God is not, a gap between the Father and the Son
is not the Will of either, who have promised to be One. God’s promise is
a promise to HIMSELF, and there is no-one who could be untrue to what He
wills as part of what He IS. The promise that there is no gap between
Himself and what He is cannot be false. What will can come between what
MUST be One, and in Whose wholeness there can BE no gap?

The beautiful relationship you have with all your brothers is a part of
you because it is a part of God Himself. Are you not sick, if you deny
yourself your wholeness and your health, the Source of help, the Call to
healing and the Call to heal? Your Savior waits for healing, and the
world waits with him. Nor are you apart from it. For healing will be one
or not at all, its oneness being where the healing lies. What could
correct for separation but its opposite? There is no middle ground in
any aspect of salvation. You accept it wholly or accept it not. What is
unseparated must be joined. And what is joined cannot be separate.

Either there is a gap between you and your brother, or you ARE as
one. There is no in between, no other choice, and no allegiance to be
split between the two. A split allegiance is but faithlessness to both,
and merely sets you spinning round, to grasp uncertainly at any straw
that seems to hold some promise of relief. Yet who can build his home
upon a straw, and count on it as shelter from the wind? The body can be
made a home like this, because it lacks foundation in the truth. And
yet, BECAUSE it does, it can be seen as NOT your home, but merely as an
aid to help you reach the home where God abides.

With THIS as purpose IS the body healed. It is not used to witness to
the dream of separation and disease. Nor is it idly blamed for what it
did not do. It serves to help the healing of God’s Son, and for THIS
purpose it cannot BE sick. It will not join a purpose not your own, and
you have CHOSEN that it not be sick. All miracles are based upon this
choice, and given you the instant it is made. No forms of sickness are
immune, because the choice cannot be made in terms of form. The choice
of sickness SEEMS to be a form, yet it is one, as is its opposite. And
YOU are sick or well, accordingly.

But never you alone. This world is but the dream that you can BE alone,
and think without affecting those apart from you. To be alone must mean
you are apart, and if you are, you cannot BUT be
sick. This seems to prove that you must be apart. Yet all it means is
that you tried to keep a promise to be true to faithlessness. Yet
faithlessness IS sickness. It is like the house set upon straw. It seems
to be quite solid and substantial in itself. Yet its stability cannot be
judged apart from its foundation. If it rests on straw, there is no need
to bar the door and lock the windows, and make fast the bolts. The wind
WILL topple it, and rain WILL come and carry it into oblivion.

What is the sense in seeking to be safe in what was MADE for danger and
for fear? Why burden it with further locks and chains and heavy anchors,
when its weakness lies, not in itself, but in the frailty of the little
gap of nothingness whereon it stands? What CAN be safe which rests upon
a shadow? Would you build your home upon what will collapse beneath a
feather’s weight?

Your home is built upon your brother’s health, upon his happiness, his
sinlessness, and everything his Father promised him. No secret promise
you have made instead has shaken the Foundation of his home. The winds
will blow upon it, and the rain will beat against it, but with no
effect. The world will wash away, and yet this house will stand forever,
for its strength lies not within itself alone. It is an ark of safety,
resting on God’s promise that His Son is safe forever in Himself. What
gap can interpose itself between the safety of this shelter and its
Source? From here the body can be seen as what it is, and neither less
nor more in worth than the extent to which it can be used to liberate
God’s Son unto his home. And with this holy purpose, is it made a home
of holiness a little while, because it shares your Father’s Will with
YOU.

