---
chapter: Twenty Six
ctitle: The Transition
title: The Appointed Friend
ref: T26.6
---

Anything in this world that you believe is good and valuable and worth
striving for can hurt you, and will do so. Not because it has the power
to hurt, but just because you have denied it is but an illusion, and
made it real. And it IS real to you. It is NOT nothing. And through its
perceived reality has entered all the world of sick illusions. All
belief in sin, in power of attack, in hurt and harm, in sacrifice and
death, has come to you. For no-one can make ONE illusion real, and still
escape the rest. For who can choose to keep the ones which he prefers,
and find the safety that the truth alone can give? Who can believe
illusions are the same, and still maintain that even one is best?

Lead not your little lives in solitude, with one illusion as your only
friend. This is no friendship worthy of God’s Son, nor one with which he
could remain content. Yet God has given him a better Friend, in whom all
power in earth and Heaven rests. The one illusion that YOU think is
friend obscures HIS grace and majesty from you, and keeps his friendship
and forgiveness from your welcoming embrace. Without him you ARE
friendless. Seek not another friend to take his place. There IS no other
friend. What God appointed has no substitute, for what illusion can
replace the truth?

Who dwells with shadows is alone indeed, and loneliness is not the Will
of God. Would you allow one shadow to usurp the throne that God
appointed for your Friend, if you but realized its emptiness has left
YOURS empty and unoccupied? Make no illusion friend, for if you do, it
can but take the place of him whom God has called your Friend. And it is
he who is your ONLY Friend in truth. He brings you gifts that are not of
this world, and only he to whom they have been given can make sure that
you receive them. He will place them on your throne, when you make room
for him on his.

