---
chapter: Twenty Six
ctitle: The Transition
title: Where Sin has Left
ref: T26.4
---

Forgiveness is this world’s equivalent of Heaven’s justice. It
translates the world of sin into a simple world, where justice can be
reflected from beyond the gate behind which total lack of limits lies.
Nothing in boundless love could need forgiveness. And what is charity
within the world gives way to simple justice past the gate that opens
into Heaven. No-one forgives unless he has believed in sin, and still
believes that he has much to be forgiven. Forgiveness thus becomes the
means by which he learns he has done nothing to forgive. Forgiveness
always rests upon the one who offers it, until he sees himself as
needing it no more. And thus is he returned to his real function of
creating, which his forgiveness offers him again.

Forgiveness turns the world of sin into a world of glory, wonderful to
see. Each flower shines in light, and every bird sings of the joy of
Heaven. There is no sadness and there is no parting here, for everything
is totally forgiven. And what has been forgiven must
join, for nothing stands between, to keep them separate and apart. The
sinless must perceive that they are one, for nothing stands between to
push the other off. And in the space which sin left vacant do they join
as one, in gladness recognizing what is part of them has not been kept
apart and separate.

The holy place on which you stand is but the space that sin has left.
And here you see the face of Christ, arising in its place. Who could
behold the face of Christ, and not recall His Father as He really is?
Who could fear love, and stand upon the ground where sin has left a
place for Heaven’s altar to rise and tower far above the world, and
reach beyond the universe to touch the heart of all creation? What is
Heaven but a song of gratitude and love and praise, by everything
created to the Source of its creation? The holiest of altars is set
where once sin was believed to be. And here does every light of heaven
come, to be rekindled and increased in joy. For here is what was lost
restored to them, and all their radiance made whole again.

Forgiveness brings no little miracles to lay before the gate of Heaven.
Here the Son of God Himself comes to receive each gift that brings him
nearer to his home. Not one is lost, and none is cherished more than any
other. Each reminds him of His Father’s Love as surely as the rest. And
each one teaches him that what he feared he loves the most. What BUT a
miracle could change his mind, so that he understands that love cannot
BE feared? What other miracle is there but this? And what else NEED
there be to make the space between you disappear?

Where sin once was perceived will rise a world which will become an
altar to the truth, and YOU will join the lights of Heaven there, and
sing their song of gratitude and praise. And as they come to you to be
complete, so will you go with them. For no-one hears the song of Heaven
and remains without a voice that adds its power to the song, and makes
it sweeter still. And each one joins the singing at the altar which was
raised within the tiny spot that sin proclaimed to be its own. And what
was tiny then has soared into a magnitude of song in which the universe
has joined with but a single voice. This tiny spot of sin that stands
between you still is holding back the happy opening of Heaven’s gate.
How little is the hindrance which withholds the wealth of Heaven from
you! And how great will be the joy in Heaven when you join the mighty
chorus to the Love of God!

