---
chapter: Twenty Six
ctitle: The Transition
title: For they Have Come
ref: T26.9
---

Think but how holy you must be from whom the Voice for God calls
lovingly unto your brother, that you may awake in him the Voice that
answers to your call! And think how holy he must be when in him sleeps
your own salvation, with his freedom joined! However much you wish he be
condemned, God is in him. And never will you know He is in you as well
while you attack His chosen home, and battle with His host. Regard him
gently. Look with loving eyes on him who carries Christ within him, that
you may behold His glory, and rejoice that Heaven is not separate from
you.

Is it too much to ask a little trust for him who carries Christ to you,
that you may be forgiven all your sins, and left without a single one
you cherish still? Forget not that a shadow held between your brother
and yourself obscures the face of Christ and memory of God. And would
you trade Them for an ancient hate? The ground whereon you stand is holy
ground because of Them Who, standing there with you, have blessed it
with Their innocence and peace.

The blood of hatred fades to let the grass grow green again, and let the
flowers be all white and sparkling in the summer sun. What was a place
of death has now become a living temple in a world of light. Because of
Them. It is Their Presence which has lifted holiness again to take its
ancient place upon an ancient throne. Because of Them have miracles
sprung up as grass and flowers on the barren ground which hate had
scorched and rendered desolate. What hate has wrought have They undone.
And now you stand on ground so holy Heaven leans to join with it, and
make it like itself. The shadow of an ancient hate has gone, and all the
blight and withering have passed forever from the land where They have
come.

What is a hundred or a thousand years to Them, or tens of thousands?
When They come, time’s purpose is fulfilled. What never was passes to
nothingness when They have come. What hatred
claimed is given up to love, and freedom lights up every living thing
and lifts it into Heaven, where the lights grow ever brighter as each
one comes home. The incomplete is made complete again, and Heaven’s joy
has been increased because what is its own has been restored to it. The
bloodied earth is cleansed, and the insane have shed their garments of
insanity, to join Them on the ground whereon you stand.

Heaven is grateful for this gift of what has been withheld so long. For
They have come to gather in Their Own. What has been locked is opened;
what was held apart from light is given up, that light may shine on it,
and leave no space nor distance lingering between the light of Heaven
and the world.

The holiest of all the spots on earth is where an ancient hatred has
become a present love. And They come quickly to the living temple, where
a home for Them has been set up. There is no place in Heaven holier. And
They have come to dwell within the temple offered them, to be Their
resting-place as well as yours. What hatred has released to love becomes
the brightest light in Heaven’s radiance. And all the lights in Heaven
brighter grow, in gratitude for what has been restored.

Around you angels hover lovingly, to keep away all darkened thoughts of
sin, and keep the light where it has entered in. Your footprints lighten
up the world, for where you walk forgiveness gladly goes with you.
No-one on earth but offers thanks to one who has restored his home, and
sheltered him from bitter winter and the freezing cold. And shall the
Lord of Heaven and His Son give less in gratitude for so much more?

Now is the temple of the Living God rebuilt as host again to Him by Whom
it was created. Where He dwells, His Son dwells with Him, never separate.
And They give thanks that They are welcome made at last. Where stood a
cross stands now the risen Christ, and ancient scars are healed within
His sight. An ancient miracle has come to bless and to replace an
ancient enmity that came to kill. In gentle gratitude do God the Father
and the Son return to what is Theirs, and will forever be. Now is the
Holy Spirit’s purpose done. For They have come! For They have come at
last!

