---
chapter: Twenty Six
ctitle: The Transition
title: The Forms of Error
ref: T26.2
---

It is not difficult to understand the reasons why you do not ask the
Holy Spirit to solve ALL problems for you. He has not greater difficulty
in resolving some than others. Every problem is the same to Him, because
each one is solved in just the SAME respect, and through the SAME
approach. The aspects which need solving do not change, whatever form the
problem seems to take. A problem can appear in many forms, and it will
do so while the problem lasts. It serves no purpose to attempt to solve
it in a special form. It will recur and then recur again and yet again,
until it has been answered for all time, and will not rise again in any
form. And only then are you released from it.

The Holy Spirit offers you release from EVERY problem that
you think you have. They are the same to Him because each one,
regardless of the form it seems to take, is a demand that someone suffer
loss, and make a sacrifice that you might gain. And when the situation
is worked out so no-one loses, is the problem gone, because it was an
error in perception which now has been corrected. One mistake is not
more difficult for Him to bring to truth than is another. For there IS
but one mistake; the whole idea that loss is possible, and could result
in gain for anyone. If this were true, then God would be unfair; sin
would be possible, attack be justified, and vengeance fair.

This one mistake, in any form, has ONE correction. There IS no loss; to
think there is, is a mistake. You HAVE no problems, though you think you
have. And yet you could not think so, if you saw them vanish one by one,
without regard to size, complexity, or place and time, or any attribute
which you perceive that makes each one seem different from the
rest. Think not the limits you impose on what you see can limit God in
any way.

The miracle of justice can correct ALL errors. Every problem IS an
error. It does injustice to the Son of God, and therefore is not
true. The Holy Spirit does not evaluate injustices as great or small, or
more or less. They have no properties to Him. They are mistakes from
which the Son of God is suffering, but needlessly. And so He takes the
thorns and nails away. He does not pause to judge whether the hurt be
large or little. He makes but one judgement; that to hurt God’s Son MUST
be unfair, and therefore is not so.

You who believe it safe to give but some mistakes to be corrected while
you keep the others to yourself, remember this: Justice is total. There
is no such thing as partial justice. If the Son of God is guilty then is
he condemned, and he deserves no mercy from the God of justice. But ask
not God to punish him because YOU find him guilty, and would have him
die. God offers you the means to see his innocence. Would it be fair to
punish him because you will not look at what is there to see? Each time
you keep a problem for yourself to solve, or judge that it is one which
has no resolution, you have made it great, and past the hope of healing.
You deny the miracle of justice CAN be fair.

If God is just, then can there be no problems that justice cannot
solve. But you believe that some injustices are fair and good, and
necessary to preserve yourself. It is these problems that you think are
great, and cannot be resolved. For there are those you WANT to suffer
loss, and no-one whom you wish to be preserved from sacrifice entirely.
Consider once again your special function. ONE is given you to see in
him his perfect sinlessness. And you will ask no sacrifice of him,
because you could not will he suffer loss. The miracle of justice you
call forth will rest on you as surely as on him. Nor will the Holy
Spirit be content until it is received by everyone. For what you give to
Him IS everyone’s, and by your giving it can He ensure that everyone
receives it equally.

Think, then, how great your own release will be, when you are willing to
receive correction for all your problems. You will not keep one, for pain
in any form you will not want. And you will see each little hurt
resolved before the Holy Spirit’s gentle sight. For all of them ARE
little in His sight, and worth no more than just a tiny sigh before they
disappear, to be forever undone and unremembered. What seemed once to be
a special problem, a mistake without a remedy, or an affliction without
a cure, has been transformed into a universal blessing. Sacrifice is
gone. And in its place the Love of God can be remembered, and will shine
away all memory of sacrifice and loss.

God cannot be remembered until justice is loved instead of feared. He
cannot be unjust to anyone or anything, because He knows that everything
that is belongs to Him, and will forever be as He created it. Nothing He
loves but must be sinless and beyond attack. Your special function opens
wide the door beyond which is the memory of His Love kept perfectly
intact and undefiled. And all you need to do is but to wish that Heaven
be given you instead of hell, and every bolt and barrier that seems to
hold the door securely barred and locked will merely fall away, and
disappear. For it is not your Father’s Will that you should offer or
receive less than He gave, when He created you in perfect love.

