---
chapter: Twenty Six
ctitle: The Transition
title: The “Sacrifice” of Oneness
ref: T26.1
---

The world you see is based on “sacrifice” of oneness. It is a picture of
a complete disunity and total lack of joining. Around each entity is
built a wall so seeming solid that it looks as if what is inside can
never reach without, and what is out can never reach and join with what
is locked away, within the wall. Each part must sacrifice the other
part, to keep itself complete. For if they joined, each one would lose
its own identity, and by their separation are their selves maintained.

The little that the body fences off BECOMES the self, preserved through
sacrifice of all the rest. And all the rest must LOSE this little part,
remaining incomplete to keep its own identity intact. In this
perception of yourself, the body’s loss would be a sacrifice indeed. For
sight of bodies becomes the sign that sacrifice is limited, and
something still remains for you alone. And for this little to belong to
you, are limits placed on everything outside, just as they are on
everything you think is yours. For giving and receiving ARE the same.
And to accept the limits of a body is to impose these limits on each
brother whom you see. For you must see him as you see yourself.

The body IS a loss, and CAN be made to sacrifice. And while you see your
brother as a body, apart from you and separate in his cell, you are
demanding sacrifice of him AND you. What greater sacrifice could be
demanded than that God’s Son perceive himself without his Father? And
his Father be without His Son? Yet every sacrifice demands that they be
separate and without the other. The memory of God MUST be denied if any
sacrifice is asked of anyone. What witness to the wholeness of God’s Son
is seen within a world of separate bodies, however much he witnesses to
truth? He is INVISIBLE in such a world. Nor can his song of union and of
love be heard at all. Yet is it given him to make the world recede before
his song, and sight of him replace the body’s eyes.

Those who would see the witnesses to truth instead of to illusion merely
ask that they might see a purpose in the world that gives it sense, and
makes it meaningful. Without your special function HAS this world no
meaning for you. Yet it can become a treasure house as rich and
limitless as Heaven itself. No instant passes here in which your
brother’s holiness cannot be seen, to add a limitless supply to every
meager scrap and tiny crumb of happiness that you allot yourself.

You CAN lose sight of oneness, but can NOT make sacrifice of its
reality. Nor can you LOSE what you would sacrifice, nor keep the Holy
Spirit from His task of showing you that it has not been lost. Hear,
then, the song your brother sings to you. And let the world recede, and
take the rest his witness offers on behalf of peace. But judge him not,
for you will hear no song of liberation for yourself, nor see what it is
given him to witness to, that you may see it and rejoice with him. Make
not his holiness a sacrifice to your belief in sin. You sacrifice YOUR
innocence with his, and die each time you see in him a sin deserving
death.

Yet every instant can you be reborn, and given life again. His holiness
gives life to you, who cannot die because his sinlessness is known to
God, and can no more be sacrificed by you than can the light in you be
blotted out because he sees it not. You who would make a sacrifice of
life, and make your eyes and ears bear witness to the death of God and
of His holy Son, think not that you have power to make of them what God
willed not they be. In Heaven, God’s Son is not imprisoned in a body,
nor is sacrificed in solitude to sin.

And as he is in Heaven, so must he be eternally and everywhere. He is
the same forever. Born again each instant, untouched by time, and far
beyond the reach of any sacrifice of life or death. For neither did he
make, and only one was given him, by One Who knows His gifts can never
suffer sacrifice and loss. God’s justice rests in gentleness upon His
Son, and keeps him safe from all injustice the world would lay upon him.
Could it be that YOU could make his sins reality, and sacrifice his
Father’s Will for him?

Condemn him not by seeing him within the rotting prison where he sees
himself. It is your special function to ensure the door be opened, that
he may come forth to shine on you, and give you back the gift of freedom
by receiving it of you. What is the Holy Spirit’s special function but
to release the holy Son of God from the imprisonment he made to KEEP
himself from justice? Could your function be a task apart and separate
from His Own?

