---
chapter: Twenty Six
ctitle: The Transition
title: The Remaining Task
ref: T26.10
---

What, then, remains to be undone, for you to realize Their Presence?
Only this; you have a differential view of when attack is justified, and
when you think it is unfair, and not to be allowed. When you perceive it
as unfair, you think that a response of anger now is just. And thus you
see what is the same as different. Confusion is not limited. If it
occurs at all, it will be total. And its presence, in whatever form,
will hide Their Presence. They are known with clarity, or not at all.
Confused perception will block knowledge. It is not a question of the
size of the confusion, or how much it interferes. Its simple presence
shuts the door to Theirs, and keeps Them there unknown.

What does it mean if you perceive attack in certain forms to be unfair
to you? It means that there must be some forms in which you think it
FAIR. For otherwise, how could some be evaluated as unfair? Some, then,
are given meaning, and perceived as sensible. And only some are seen as
meaningless. And this denies the fact that ALL are senseless; equally
without a cause or consequence, and cannot have effects of ANY kind.
Their Presence is obscured by any veil which stands between Their
shining innocence, and your awareness it is your own, and EQUALLY
belongs to every living thing along with you. God limits not. And what
is limited can NOT be Heaven. So it MUST be hell.

Unfairness and attack are ONE mistake, so firmly joined that where one
is perceived, the other must be seen. You cannot BE unfairly treated.
The belief you are is but another form of the idea you are deprived by
someone not yourself. Projection of the cause of sacrifice is at the
root of everything perceived to be unfair, and not your just deserts.
Yet it is YOU who ask this of yourself, in deep injustice to the Son of
God. You have no enemy except yourself, and you are enemy indeed to him
because you do not know him AS yourself. What could be more unjust than
that he be deprived of what he IS, denied the right to be himself, and
asked to sacrifice his Father’s Love and yours, as not his due?

Beware of the temptation to perceive yourself unfairly treated. In this
view, you seek to find an innocence which is not Theirs but yours alone,
and at the cost of someone else’s guilt. Can innocence be purchased by
the giving of your guilt to someone else? And IS this
innocence, which your attack on him attempts to get? Is it not
retribution for your own attack upon the Son of God you seek? Is it not
safer to believe that you are innocent of this, and victimized despite
your innocence? Whatever way the game of guilt is played, there MUST be
loss. Someone must lose his innocence that someone else can take it from
him, making it his own.

You think your brother is unfair to you because you think that one must
be unfair to make the other innocent. And in this game do you perceive
one purpose for your whole relationship. And this you seek to add unto
the purpose given it. The Holy Spirit’s purpose is to let the Presence of
your holy Guests be known to you. And to this purpose nothing CAN be
added, for the world is purposeless except for this. To add or take away
from this ONE goal is but to take away all purpose from the world and
from yourself. And each unfairness that the world appears to lay upon
you YOU have laid on IT by rendering it purposeless, without the
function that the Holy Spirit sees. And simple justice has been thus
denied to every living thing upon the earth.

What this injustice does to you who judge unfairly, and who see as you
have judged, you cannot calculate. The world grows dim and threatening,
and not a trace of all the happy sparkle that salvation brought can you
perceive, to lighten up your way. And so you see yourself deprived of
light, abandoned to the dark, unfairly left without a purpose in a
futile world. The world is fair because the Holy Spirit has brought
injustice to the light within, and there has all unfairness been
resolved, and been replaced with justice and with love. If you perceive
injustice anywhere, you need but say:

> “By this do I deny the Presence of the Father and the Son. And I
> would rather know of Them than see injustice, which Their Presence
> shines away.”

