---
title: Jan 7, 2012
ref: ""
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who&rsquo;s joining us on the
Internet.

We ended up last time with these sentences:

The dream of waking is easily transferred to its reality. For the dream
comes from your will joined with the Will of God. And what this Will
would have accomplished has never NOT been done.1

In the act of Creation, in the Movement from which you emerged as the
Father&rsquo;s Self Expression, you were joined with the
Father&mdash;your will was joined with the Father&rsquo;s. And there was
no attempt on your part and no imaginative reason being held to justify
being at odds with the Father&rsquo;s Will. The experience of being with
the Father&rsquo;s Will, being in alignment, flowing with the
Father&rsquo;s Will caused you to experience Heaven, caused you to
experience the unalterable divinity of everything.

Now, since that was established from the beginning, you are not now in
your process of Awakening, working toward a state of being that you
never had before, that is totally foreign to you and which would make it
very difficult to shift from a misperception to the conscious experience
of Reality. You see?

Awakening is a Movement in which it becomes clear to you that what you
thought you had accomplished on your own, which inadvertently resulted
in a human condition subject to sin, disease and death never was
accomplished!

If you had actually succeeded in establishing some real existence
different from God, you would have altered God. You would have caused
God to be something less than He is.  And that&rsquo;s impossible.

Now, the problem is that you think you have accomplished creating things
on your own and made them real. What makes that problematic is that it
causes you to be unable to fathom how you could be something different
from the definitions you have given yourself, the definitions others
have given you, the definitions you&rsquo;ve given the world&mdash;all
of which are different from God.

And yet, that&rsquo;s all it takes to Wake up.

All it takes is for you to be able to fathom the possibility that what
seems real to you as a result of your own actions is not real at all,
never was real, never became real, God never stopped Being what He is,
and therefore, the you that at the moment of Creation, whose will was at
one with the Father are unchanged and have always been unchanged.

And so Waking up is not a matter of accomplishing something and becoming
something different than what you Are. It&rsquo;s actually you
abandoning the idea that you are something different from what the
Father has created .  . . it&rsquo;s not true.

And so Awakening is best described as a miracle&mdash;a sudden shift of
perception&mdash;a sudden shift of perception in which you begin to
fathom the truth as being totally true about you right now and that what
the Father created you As, you still Are and you haven&rsquo;t been able
to alter that in the slightest. You see?

Waking up is only going to be a matter of a shift of perception.
It&rsquo;s not going to be turning you into something incredibly
different from what you are right now. That&rsquo;s why it&rsquo;s easy.
A shift of perception is easy. All of you have experienced shifts of
perception in your lives, where you believed one way and suddenly you
were able to see a different way and you shifted&mdash;your perception
shifted&mdash;and the ignorance you had been governed by before then is
now absent and you&rsquo;re no longer governed by it.

This is very important to understand.

This Course is not so long, is not as extensive as it is because what
you&rsquo;re going to need to do is going to be so difficult. It&rsquo;s
so long because it&rsquo;s difficult for you to fathom Reality as being
not only possible but actual right now while you&rsquo;re still part of
a material world and universe as a mortal. You see? While this
experience is still going on, you must begin to fathom the fact that
it&rsquo;s not true and that no matter how absolutely sure you are of
it, it can be left behind in a wink of an eye&mdash;in a sudden simple
shift of perception.

New Section:

LIGHT IN THE DREAM

You who have spent your lives in bringing truth to illusion&hellip;

&hellip; meaning, you who have brought the meanings of Creation that God
has enacted, those who have brought these things to a place in you where
they are put through a process of redefinition in your mind through the
use of your imagination, that&rsquo;s called bringing truth to illusion
&hellip; bringing Reality to the threshold of your mind and then
operating on it through the use of your imagination, you&rsquo;re
bringing truth to a place where you are transforming it into what it is
not and believing that you&rsquo;ve done it! That&rsquo;s bringing truth
to illusion.

So:

You who have spent your lives in bringing truth to illusion, reality to
fantasy, have walked the way of dreams.

I don&rsquo;t have to keep saying that you didn&rsquo;t do it on
purpose, but whether you knew what you were doing or not, that is what
was done. And until you bring God into the picture relative to
everything you are experiencing, you&rsquo;re continuing to bring
Reality to fantasy. But the minute you say, &ldquo;Wait a
minute!&rdquo;&hellip; the moment you decide to shut up and practice the
two-step and move into the holy instant, you reverse the flow, so to
speak, and you bring fantasy to Reality. You bring yourself to a place
where you&rsquo;re willing to abandon your definitions, your fantasies,
your beliefs, and enquire of the Source of
all&mdash;God&mdash;&ldquo;What is the truth here? I want to know the
truth. I want to exchange my fantasies for Reality.&rdquo;

So, whether you like it or not &hellip;

You who have spent your lives in bringing truth to illusion, reality to
fantasy, have walked the way of dreams.

What&rsquo;s the meaning of the Christmas Message? Stepping out of the
dream.  Waking up. Coming back into your right Mind. Joining me as my
Brother or Sister&mdash;Knowing that you are my Brother or Sister. You
see?

For you &hellip;

&hellip; have walked the way of dreams.

Yes.

For you have gone from waking to sleeping, and on and on to a yet deeper
sleep.

How do you do that?  Well, the sleep gets deeper and deeper by means of
all the additional definitions and mutual agreements that are brought
into play for self-satisfaction, for self-aggrandizement, for control
and to attempt to become something real in your own right.

It is like government in a way: Mutual definitions are arrived at,
mutual agreements are arrived at and mutual agreements on top of mutual
agreements are brought into play until it becomes very difficult to know
what the first mutual agreements were that make the ones you&rsquo;re
making now reasonable and valid and worth embracing. You see? It gets
more and more complex.

Each dream has led to other dreams, and every fantasy which seemed to
bring a light into the darkness but made the darkness deeper. Your GOAL
was darkness, in which no ray of light could enter.

What does that mean? It means that your goal was to make up your own
definitions and meanings and commit yourself to them at the expense of
the conscious experience of what those newly defined things actually
Were. So what they actually Were could not enter any longer.

And so again:

Your GOAL was darkness&hellip;

&hellip; your goal was fantasy &hellip;

&hellip; in which no ray of light could enter. And you sought a
blackness so complete that you could hide from truth forever, in
complete insanity.

If you arrive at a point where you believe that you have made yourself
real and valid, by virtue of authority you have imagined you have and
have exercised, then you create an ignorance so complete that the real
Meaning of everything cannot enter&mdash;the light cannot enter.

&hellip; a blackness so complete that you could hide from truth forever,
in complete insanity.

What does that mean? It means you could hide in this definition of
yourself and this sense of who you are and how you work and where you
came from and how important you are. You see?

 What you forgot was simply that God cannot destroy Himself.

No matter how much fantasy you collect and assemble so that it looks
like something valid&mdash;a real you&mdash;no matter how much you
engage in that and how committed you are to it &hellip;

God cannot destroy Himself.

Therefore, He hasn&rsquo;t and therefore you haven&rsquo;t become
anything less than what He created. This is the fact that you&rsquo;re
coming to a point of recognizing by means of a shift of
perception&mdash;by means of the miracle.  It&rsquo;s that simple.

The light is IN you.

Always has been. Never went anywhere. Even though you have ignored it,
blinded yourself to it by committing to a belief about yourself so
insane that there&rsquo;s just no way for you to recognize the Light in
you.  But it&rsquo;s there! And that&rsquo;s why I&rsquo;m here telling
you about it. And that&rsquo;s why the Course is here telling you about
it because you need to be reminded of something that&rsquo;s already
so&mdash;not something you have to achieve.

The light is IN you. Darkness can cover it, but CANNOT put it out.

If it cannot put it out, it has not put it out. And therefore, what you
divinely Are is fully present with full capacity at this very instant.
You cannot fathom it but you must let yourself begin to.

Now:

As the light comes nearer you will rush to darkness, shrinking from the
truth&hellip;

&hellip; as the light comes nearer &hellip; now why would the light be
coming nearer? The light would be coming nearer because you&rsquo;ve
engaged in the holy instant. You have engaged in a holy relationship
&hellip; remember that&rsquo;s the context of what this is about that
we&rsquo;ve been considering.  And so you have decided to participate in
a holy relationship, which means you&rsquo;ve decided to bring God into
the picture: &ldquo;Father what is the truth about this one I&rsquo;m in
relationship with? I want to know the truth. I do not want to be hung up
on who that one thinks he or she is, or who I think she is, or he is. I
want to get past that.&rdquo; You see?

In that commitment something automatically begins to happen: The light
comes nearer.

Now:

As the light comes nearer you will rush to darkness&hellip;

&hellip; so don&rsquo;t be surprised and don&rsquo;t be too quick to
judge yourself . .  .

&hellip; you will rush to darkness, shrinking from the truth, sometimes
retreating to the lesser forms of fear&hellip;

&hellip; you won&rsquo;t necessarily shift into the full blown forms of
fear, but you will because of what you&rsquo;re afraid the truth is and
what the truth will do to you, you will find yourself backing off from
the commitment to a holy relationship. It will happen. Don&rsquo;t be
surprised and let it simply be a signal to you to get back on the beam,
to make recommitment to your desire to ask God &ldquo;What is the truth
here about this one I&rsquo;m in relationship with? Help me to see this
one as You created him or her.  Let me experience Your
Perspective.&rdquo; You see? That&rsquo;s what causes the light to come
nearer. And when you become afraid, you must remember to reinstate that
intent. It&rsquo;s all that simple.

As the light comes nearer you will rush to darkness, shrinking from the
truth, sometimes retreating to the lesser forms of fear, and sometimes
to stark terror.

You know, when you first said you&rsquo;d rather see things your way,
fear and guilt came into the picture and then became compounded.

It isn&rsquo;t easy to come back Home. It&rsquo;s simple, but it
isn&rsquo;t easy to come back Home because of your conditioned sense of
yourself and of your guilt and of your unworthiness and that
there&rsquo;s a penalty of some sort that you must pay for what
you&rsquo;ve done in your attempt to be independent and deny your
Father, God.

So:

But you WILL advance because your goal IS the advance from fear to
truth.

What goal? The goal put into place by your engaging in a holy
relationship through the use of the holy instant.

Remember, you can have the intent and you can move along smoothly and
then something will happen that triggers a self-protective response in
you and that takes over your mind and you forget that you&rsquo;re part
of an agreement to engage in a holy relationship. And you&rsquo;ve
simply got to remind yourself of that, so that you can recognize that
this self-protection that you&rsquo;re engaging in absolutely blocks the
holy relationship and does not serve you, so that no matter how
reasonable it seems, how justifiable it is, you can say, &ldquo;No sir,
I will have nothing to do with you. You have nothing to do with Reality
or my Awakening or my experience with the holy relationship.&rdquo; And
let it go.

&hellip; your goal IS the advance from fear to truth. You KNOW this.

Temporary memory loss sometimes and you forget but you do know it.

The goal which you accepted IS the goal of knowledge&hellip;

&hellip; or as I&rsquo;ve said, &ldquo;Knowing&rdquo;&hellip;

&hellip; for which you signified your willingness &hellip;

&hellip; by entering into a holy relationship and desiring to stick with
it.

Fear seems to live in darkness, and when you are afraid you have stepped
back.

That&rsquo;s all, you have stepped back.

Let us then join quickly in an instant of light, and it will be enough
to remind you that your goal IS light. Truth has rushed to meet you
since you called upon it.

That&rsquo;s not only wonderful, it&rsquo;s important to know. When you
desire to know the truth, the truth rushes forward to share itself with
you.  Be with that for a moment &hellip;

Truth isn&rsquo;t a collection of facts listed on a page. Truth is the
living Presence of the conscious awareness of what is Real. It is
present because God created it that way&mdash;created it there&mdash;and
also created it as that which has the intent to be Known by every single
part of Creation.  So it is not inanimate. Again, not just a collection
of facts. It&rsquo;s the true Meaning of every single aspect of Creation
which intends to share itself with you and with every part of Creation.
It&rsquo;s a living active Presence presenting Itself. And the moment
you desire to know the truth, truly Know the truth, you will find it
presenting itself to you.

Sometimes that is frightening because you tend to think of truth as one
of a pair. The other part of the pair is consequence&mdash;truth or
consequences. So truth is perceived and felt by everyone as something
that brings with it penalty. Its job is to keep you in line. You see?

But the purpose of truth is to reveal to you at the level of meaning and
feeling that anything you thought you had accomplished that was a denial
of your Self or the Father you never accomplished. It never happened!
Therefore, there is no foundation for a consequence of any
kind&mdash;not as a result of knowing the truth.

Now you have already had the consequences of the intent to do what you
can&rsquo;t do&mdash;fear and guilt, sin, sickness and death, pain,
suffering. But those weren&rsquo;t the result of knowing the truth.
Those weren&rsquo;t the fruits of truth rushing in and embracing you and
embracing your mind in that which discloses your innocence. You see?

If you knew Who walks beside you on this way which you have chosen, fear
would be impossible.

Well, who walks with you on this way? Well, the Holy Spirit&mdash;that
which is nothing more than your right Mind. It&rsquo;s inseparable from
you, even if you&rsquo;re ignoring it. The Holy Spirit walks with you.
All of the Brotherhood, which is Awake, walks with you&mdash;knows
everything about you.  Nothing about you is hidden from those Who are
Awake. They see the Father. They look at you and are reminded of the
Father&mdash;They remember God. That&rsquo;s what relationships do.

Who else walks with you? I walk with you. And you know what? The Father,
figuratively speaking, walks with you because the Father is Being you
and is therefore ever Present and wholly Present with you and as You.

So:

If you knew Who walks beside you on this way which you have
chosen&hellip;

&hellip; the way of a holy relationship &hellip;

&hellip; fear would be impossible. You do not know because the journey
into darkness has been long and cruel, and you have gone deep into it.

I know everyone&rsquo;s tired of it.

A little flicker of your eyelids, closed so long, has not [yet] been
sufficient to give you confidence in yourselves&hellip;

You have all in one way or another experienced the Presence of the Holy
Spirit&mdash;that which is nothing more than your right Mind. All of you
have experienced revelation in one way or another, in one time or
another, and it has changed you. But you&rsquo;re immediately faced with
the same world that you were perceiving before the illumination
occurred. And so after the flicker of the eyelid, it&rsquo;s easy to
become overwhelmed again by all the meanings you have given to
everything and believed for so long.

A little flicker of your eyelids, closed so long, has not yet been
sufficient to give you confidence in yourselves&hellip;

&hellip; not confidence in yourselves as egos, or as who you believed
you were, but the experience of being invulnerable, of being utterly
safe because you are the Son or Daughter of God and for a moment you
have experienced it.

The experience of it can be described as confidence in yourselves
because when you experience it you&rsquo;re not doubting. And I
don&rsquo;t even have to say you&rsquo;re not doubting
yourself&mdash;you&rsquo;re not doubting! And in the absence of doubt,
your invulnerability, your wholeness, your Reality, your eternality all
congeal in a form or a manner that you have no doubt about. And so, one
could say you have confidence in yourselves.

Again:

A little flicker of your eyelids, closed so long, has not yet been
sufficient to give you confidence in yourselves, so long despised.

I know, you didn&rsquo;t think you despised yourself&mdash;some of you
will acknowledge it. But the simple fact is, when you&rsquo;re walking
around in a state of fear feeling guilty about something, you&rsquo;re
in a despicable place. And it must be because there is something
despicable about you.  It must be your fault no matter how hard you try
to put it out there on something or someone else.

So:

You go toward love still hating it, and terribly afraid of its judgment
upon you.

You must understand that this is the nature of the trip Home. This is
the nature of the mentality encountered as you yield up your faith in
all the meanings that you&rsquo;ve given and the fearful sense of
yourself that has accompanied you since you got your divorce from the
Father and chose to ignore Him and surprisingly lost the experience of
your own divinity and holy Birthright.

You go toward love still hating it, and terribly afraid of its judgment
upon you. And you do not realize that you are not afraid of love, but
only of what you have made of it.

You see? And what you have made of it is the result of the use of
imagination, which constitutes a perception that&rsquo;s not Real. And
perceptions are easily replaced. Misperceptions can disappear and be
replaced by truth instantaneously at this moment. Not a complicated
thing.

You are advancing to love&rsquo;s meaning, and away from all illusions
in which you have surrounded it.

You see? That's another way of saying, &ldquo;You are neither behind
the point of perfection nor advancing toward it. You are at that point
and must understand yourself therefrom.&rdquo;

When you retreat to the illusion your fear increases, for there is
little doubt that what you think it means IS fearful. Yet what is that
to us who travel surely and very swiftly AWAY from fear?

Again, remember you are engaged in a holy relationship consciously and
on purpose. That is the focal point of Waking up&mdash;of the shift of
perception. And you join with me and you join with the Holy Spirit.  And
when your connection with us is more important than anything else, you
will find that we will travel surely and very swiftly away from fear.
You simply have to remember to return to our joint effort.

You who hold each other&rsquo;s hand also hold mine, for when you joined
each other you were not alone.

Right? We talked about the fact that when you join with each other for
the purpose of having a holy relationship, you actually, momentarily
withdraw your attention from each other and give your attention to the
Father or the Holy Spirit so that you might ask, &ldquo;What is the
truth about this one I&rsquo;m in relationship with?&rdquo;. . so that
the truth of it may infill you and spontaneously find expression in your
relationship.

So:

You who hold each other&rsquo;s hand also hold mine, for when you joined
each other you were not alone. Do you believe that I would leave you in
the darkness you agreed to leave with ME? In your relationship is this
world&rsquo;s light.

The Real light &hellip; the light of truth &hellip; the light of Love.

And fear MUST disappear before you now.

That&rsquo;s inevitable. You just need to not lose faith. You just need
to persist in the union with me or the Holy Spirit or the Father,
desiring to be infilled with the experience of truth so that it might be
easily shared, blessing your Brother and being something you&rsquo;re
able to keep.

Be tempted not to snatch away the gift of faith you offered to each
other. You will succeed only in frightening yourselves.

But I will tell you the temptation will be there. Just don&rsquo;t yield
to it.

The gift is given forever, for God Himself received it. You CANNOT take
it back. You have accepted God.

The practice of the holy relationship and the practice of the holy
instant sets correction into motion, sets transformation, regeneration
and redemption into motion, sets Awakening into motion. And because
you&rsquo;re not totally ignorant any longer, it will persist whether
you have momentary loss of faith.

You have accepted God. The holiness of your relationship is established
in Heaven.

You see?

You do not understand what you accepted, but remember that your
understanding is not necessary.

It takes trust to let yourself be swept into the holy instant and all
the Meanings of a holy relationship because you don&rsquo;t at this
moment remember what it involves.

You do not understand what you accepted, but remember that your
understanding is not necessary.

Why? Because the moment of the Holy Spirit infilling you with the truth
puts you in a position of Knowing&mdash;being aware of something with
conviction because it&rsquo;s so clear to you that what you&rsquo;re
Knowing is absolutely true. There is no question about it. There is no
call for doubt. There is no occasion for fear. So understanding is not
necessary because Knowing of the truth will be what you are
experiencing.

So you can dare to engage in what seems fearful to you because
you&rsquo;re abandoning control and yielding to That which you
can&rsquo;t quite fathom yet. You&rsquo;re yielding to the Holy
Spirit&mdash;your divinity. And you&rsquo;re yielding to the
Father&rsquo;s Will.

You do not understand what you accepted, but remember that your
understanding is not necessary. All that was necessary was merely the
WISH to understand.

&ldquo;Father, what is the truth here?&rdquo; That&rsquo;s all
that&rsquo;s necessary. You don&rsquo;t have to understand what the
answer is going to be. It will be lovingly provided.

All that was necessary was merely the WISH to understand. That wish was
the desire to be holy. The will of God is granted you. For you desire
the only thing you ever had, or ever were.

You see? Being a mortal, being an ego is the result of attempting to be
what you&rsquo;re not and never were. And of course it hasn&rsquo;t
worked. It has not been accomplished. But when you say, &ldquo;Father,
what is the truth here? Father, what is the truth about this one
I&rsquo;m in relationship with?&rdquo; You are desiring the only thing
you ever had or ever were, because it didn&rsquo;t go anywhere while you
played in an insane imagination.

Each instant that we spend together will teach you that this goal is
possible&hellip;

&hellip; you see, that&rsquo;s the point. [chuckling] All of this is to
bring clearly into the foreground the fact that the holy instant works.
Don&rsquo;t forget that! The holy instant works. What you have been
engaging in hasn&rsquo;t worked.

So dare to risk the chance that the holy instant works. And that the
Holy Spirit&mdash;which has been held in trust for you while you dallied
with the ego&mdash;is still the only thing that&rsquo;s Real about you
and is available for you to experience [snaps fingers] now.

Each instant that we spend together &hellip;

&hellip; whether it&rsquo;s like this or whether it&rsquo;s directly in
the within-ness of your being &hellip;

Each instant that we spend together will teach you that this goal is
possible, and will strengthen your desire to reach it.

Be persistent! Have faith!

And in your desire lies its accomplishment. Your desire is now in
complete accord with all the power of the Holy Spirit&rsquo;s Will.

You see? When you want to know the truth, your desire of the Holy Spirit
is for the Holy Spirit to do what has been held in trust to do&mdash;to
join with you and bring you into joining with It so that there is no
confusion about Who and What you Are.

No little, faltering footsteps that you may take can separate your
desire from His Will and from His strength. I hold your hand &hellip; I
hold your hand &hellip; I hold your hand as surely as you agreed to take
each other&rsquo;s. You will not separate for I stand with you, and walk
with you in your advance to truth. And where we go we carry God with us.

So, tonight we&rsquo;re talking in terms of confirmation of the fact
that the holy instant is the Meaning of the Christmas message. And that
it&rsquo;s the undoing of something that was never done, but you believe
was done and hold yourself accountable for and cause yourself to sin, be
sick and die, even though it cannot actually be done. And it is time for
the undoing of the belief that it could be done and was done.

Everyone likes to have a meaning to hold onto&mdash;a phrase or a
slogan, a catch word. And so I am going to yield to that and say that
the meaning of this new year is: The Year of the Miracle. The definition
of miracle being: A sudden shift of perception. And I am saying that
this is The Year of the Miracle in the sense that there will be
multitudes who will be practicing the holy instant, engaging in a holy
relationship or many holy relationships and that will turn the tide, and
the reason for the first Christmas will have been fulfilled.

So I wish you a Happy New Year and an ongoing fulfilling Christmas.

And I look forward to being with you next week.

A Course In Miracles (reference pages) Chapter 18 &ndash; Section: LIGHT
IN THE DREAM 1Sparkly Book &ndash; p.429  / JCIM &ndash; p.179  /  CIMS
&ndash; p.361 First Edition &ndash; p. 352  /  Second Edition &ndash;
p.378

