---
title: Oct 14, 2012
ref: T19.5 The Attraction of Guilt (needs formatting)
---

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the
Internet.

I’m going to share something with you—something that occurred during the
first six months of my communion with Paul.  

We arrived at a point where it was clear to me that he was conceiving of
our communication as though I were reaching through “the veil” to talk
to him as a human being in the middle of the human condition where he
thought he was.  And I had to share with him the good news which was,
that contrary to the picture he had, it was more like him in a submarine
sending up a periscope above the surface of the water, above the
threshold, we’ll say, of the veil and recognizing me and communing with
me where I am, meaning, in a state of enlightenment, in a state of being
Awake, even though I out of all of Creation, was the only part he was
able to recognize and communicate with.

Now this is very important.

Because if you imagine that when you are doing the two-step and you are
saying, “Father” or “Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?” and you hear
an  answer, you are in-filled with the conscious experience of truth
that heals.  It is not being provided to you as an orphan in the
orphanage, or as a human being in the middle of the human condition.
No.  It means that in your intent to abandon your isolation, you have
reached through the boundary where you can hear the Father, or you can
hear the Holy Spirit, or you can hear me or your Guide.

Now this helps explain the difference in a graphical way, in a
conceptual way that expresses the truth, how it is that you are not one
among many, but are the One that constitutes the many.  And so that you
might not misconstrue that, let me put it this way: When you do the
two-step and you abandon your isolation and your solid intent to be an
independent agent in your own right, you move your attention into the
experience of Atonement—into the experience of being Awake—and so your
attention is no longer in the human condition as a human entity.  

This is very important.  

You are at that point, functioning as the holy Son or Daughter of God
that you truly Are and always have been.  When you make that connection,
what happens is that you join with me or the Holy Spirit or the Father
or your Guide—all of which function with the same intent—and with Us,
you can turn around and look back at the situation or circumstance that
caused you to reach out for help and see it from Our Perspective because
that’s where you’re looking at it from.  You see?

Again, the practice of the holy instant puts you in communion with the
Holy Spirit—that which is nothing more than your right Mind—or me who
serves the same function as the Holy Spirit, or the Father who is always
bestowing upon you His Perspective, the Truth of everything.   And from
that place with Us, you are able to turn around, abandoning or having
abandoned the perspective that caused you to reach out for help in the
first place, and look with Us to see the truth.

Now let’s hear these words again.  You are not one among many, which is
what the human condition seems to be.  You are the One that constitutes
the many.  Now you are the One that constitutes the many when you have
engaged in the holy instant, when you have reached out for help and Help
has been given and you are experiencing the Help and in that experience
of Help, you are looking back at what you had called a problem with
God’s Perspective.

Now, is not God the One that constitutes the many?  Is not God that
which constitutes all of Creation forever, making it forever new by
virtue of Being the Movement of Creation?  That is what God is.  

And so God’s Experience is the experience of that.  And it is your
Birthright to be experiencing the same thing, because you’ve been given
by the Father, no other capacity.  Your function is to experience what
the Father is Being.  Your function is to experience the Meanings and
only the Meanings that the Father is Embodying in the Movement of
Creation.

So the experience of Atonement, the experience of Awakening is going to
be one of a shift from the orphanage vantage point, the independent
thinker vantage point, the independent receiver of truth vantage point,
and you’re going to move, I’m going to say for lack of better words,
next to Us and turn around and look at what We’re looking at, which is
just exactly where you were a moment ago in your distress, but we’re
looking at it with the Father’s Perspective. 

So the healing of nations and the healing of individuals is a result of
aligning with willingly, cooperatively, humbly, with the Father’s
Perspective which is your Birthright to be experiencing and looking on
everything from There.  

From There you will find no call for justice.  You will find no
justification for jealousy or judgment or revenge.  

What you want is to be of sound Mind, not fragmented mind.  And sound
Mind is the experience of the divine eternal intelligence that God is
Being right where you are as You in your wholeness.

So you see, it’s never a matter of asking from the human condition,
“What is the truth here about the human condition?” so that you in the
human condition can address the human condition.

Be with that for a moment . . .

And what will you be?  You don’t know.  And when you go into the holy
instant not thinking you know what will come of it, you are in a
position to experience divine Vision—divine realization—and have a new
Perspective which is what is called for.

Just keep the visual in mind of you moving to my Side and then turning
around and looking with me at the place where you just came from,
looking at it with my Perspective which is the Father’s Perspective,
which it is your Birthright to be experiencing as your Perspective.  You
see?

That’s how you find yourself experiencing Being the One that constitutes
the many because you are experiencing what the Father is experiencing
and in that, being co-creator, as I’ve said before, the co-operator with
the Father.  You see?  That’s when everything changes in a twinkling of
an eye.  And the twinkling of an eye in which everything can change can
happen now . . . or by December 21st.  You see?  

It’s time and it’s not as complicated as you would make it.

Now most of you who are listening have had the experience of revelation
or divine insight—divine communion with a divine Source—that has changed
you.  And you did not realize that when you had that experience, you
weren’t having it from the human condition on a planet that is part of a
physical universe that come from a “Big Bang” and had nothing to do with
a divine Source.  You have had the experience of seeing from the
Father’s Vantage Point. You have had a moment of illumination in which
your divinity was being directly experienced, not successfully blocked
by your intent to be a successful independent agent.  That is what
happened! It was you having an experience of your divinity.  It was you
Being the One that constituted the many because you were willing to look
through the Eyes of that One that does constitute the many and you were
not choosing to have a separate interpretation of it all, yourself.

Now let’s go into the book:

The fierce attraction which guilt holds for fear is wholly absent from
love's gentle perception.

It’s the difference between the orphanage perspective—of you being one
amongst many—and the Father’s Perspective, the Perspective of the Holy
Spirit, in which you are the One that constitutes the many inseparable
from the whole.

What love would look upon is meaningless to fear, . .

. . . you see? . .

. . . and quite invisible.

But if you stop and think about it, when you reach out in the holy
instant to ask for Help, you’re asking for the Help to look upon the
meaningless and help you do something about it.  And that’s not the
answer because it doesn’t allow for your perspective changing so that
you are seeing it from a place that Knows the answer which doesn’t call
for the practice of force or powerful correction but allows your heart
to melt so that Love flows and Love is received, and there is a
gentleness of your spirit that was not present when you were in the
state of reaction that caused you to be uncomfortable and ask for
Help—engage in the holy instant.

Relationships in this world are the result of how the world is seen.

And I’m going to say, where it is seen from.  

And this depends on which emotion was called on to send its messengers
to look upon it, and return with word of what they saw. Fear's
messengers are trained through terror, and they tremble when their
master calls upon them to serve him.

Now this sounds really ugly.  Especially if you’re the one in the middle
of distress who is sending out messengers of fear to find proof that
fear is called for, that fear is justified and that force can be
appropriately brought to bear upon the situation.  But indeed, when it
comes right down to it and you’re between a rock and a hard place, and
your world seems to aggressively demand that you do something to protect
yourself, you do indeed succumb to fear and you do indeed send out
messengers of fear and that is when you find out how capable you seem to
be to be a master of the messengers of fear who trained them through
terror so that they tremble when you call upon them to serve you.

You can be pretty ugly when you are between a rock and a hard place.  If
things are relatively smooth and calm in your life, these things never
surface and you say, “Well, I’m far from an agent of a horror movie, I’m
far from that which promotes evil,” but the fact is that . . . 

Fear’s messengers . . .

. . . your fear’s messengers . . .

. . . are trained through terror, and they tremble when their master
calls upon them to serve him. For fear is merciless even to its friends.
Its messengers . . .

. . . the ones you send out for confirmation that there is justification
for attack . . . 

. . . steal guiltily away in hungry search of guilt, for they are kept
cold and starving, and made very vicious by their master, who allows
them to feast only upon what they return to him.

Mind you, this is talking about each one of you who, while still in the
orphanage, engage in this kind of a context of being.  Fortunately, the
correction is simple.  And fortunately, you cannot actually accomplish
becoming what you are not.  And so there is no penalty awaiting for you.
There is just the suffering that you will be relieved of when you
abandon your independence and reach “through the veil” to join with your
Guide or the Holy Spirit or the Father humbly and with commitment.

No little shred of guilt escapes their hungry eyes.

. . . the messengers you send out . . .

And in their savage search for sin, they pounce on any living thing they
see, . .

. . . you see? [chuckle] There’s not any real discrimination.  They
pounce on anything, guilty or not.  They pounce on any aspect of the
Kingdom of Heaven . . .  . . . and carry it screaming to their master .
. . 

. . . you . . .

. . . to be devoured.

This is one of the reasons it is so important to engage in the holy
instant.  So that you do not ignorantly or with great purpose, indict
and punish your fellowman or yourself or your body by sending out
messengers looking for that which is awful and then believing the
confirming news that they return to you, so that you end up condemning a
Brother or a nation or a race or a situation that needs the healing
unction of Love and not the presence of the justification of hate and
fear to penalize it.

Send not these savage messengers into the world, to feast upon it, and
to prey upon reality.

You hear that?

. . . and to prey upon reality.

To prey upon the Kingdom of Heaven that it all is.  To prey upon the
Sons and Daughters of God who they Are—the real actuality of the
Presence of God manifest.

I’ve said it before, there’s only one thing confronting you: Seeing
either truly or  through a glass darkly.  And  that  one  thing  is
Reality.    That  one  thing is God’s Creation.  That one thing is the
Movement of Creation  occurring  now. . . now . . . now . . . now . . .
now.   If you’re seeing something different, don’t believe it.  Don’t
use what you’re seeing as the basis for any action other than saying,
“Father what is the truth here?” and then be quiet enough to hear the
Father or me or the Holy Spirit so that you might, now that you’re
consciously with Us, turn around so that you can look at everything from
where We’re standing, where We’re Being so that you might experience
being the One that constitutes the many.  The One that is inseparable
from your Brothers and Sisters and all of Creation in its
perfection—it’s fullness.

Send not these savage messengers into the world, to feast upon it, and
to prey upon reality. For they will bring you word of bones and skin and
flesh.

 

Now, very simply what that means is:  That when you are identifying as
one among many, when you are one diligent independent agent trying to
make yourself valid as an independent agent, you will find that you are
identifying yourself as a body engaged in these activities:  

. . . bones and skin and flesh.

Not only that, bones and skin and flesh that can be injured, decay and
die—in other words, that which is mortal.  That is the absurd and
destructive perception of God’s Creation:  The manifestation of the
Movement of God which is incapable of sin, disease or death, which is as
eternal as the visibility and tangibility of all of the rest of
Creation.  But they will bring you the messengers you send out, the
messengers of fear. . .

. . . they will bring you word of bones and skin and flesh.

And of course, it’ll be talking about  your Brothers and Sisters.  But
it confirms to you that what’s true of them is true of you, which is of
course, why you sent the messengers out in the first place.

They have been taught to seek for the corruptible, and to return with
gorges filled with things decayed and rotted. 

In other words, misperceived so badly, distorted so far out of the scope
of Reality and of God’s Creation that they present nothing Godlike,
nothing divine, nothing perfect, nothing loveable.

To them such things are beautiful . . . 

. . . why? . . 

. . . because they seem to allay their savage pangs of hunger. 

They get to bring them home to their master and then they get to feed on
them.  And so they appreciate them because for a little while they feel
full, they feel satisfied, justice has been served, purpose has been
fulfilled, correction has been done.  But there hasn’t been a bit of
healing.

For they are frantic with the pain of fear, and would avert the
punishment of him who sends them forth by offering him what they hold
dear.

That, no matter how well covered up, is the modus operandi of
functioning as an orphan in a material world and universe where God is
not seen.

But, continuing: 

The Holy Spirit . . .

. . . umm, that which you have experienced as a result of being humble
and engaging in the holy instant . . .

The Holy Spirit has given you love's messengers to send instead of those
you trained through fear. They . . . 

. . . Love’s  messengers . . .

. . . are as eager to return to you what they hold dear as are the
others . . . 

. . . the messengers for fear.

If you send them . . .

. . . Love’s messengers . . .

. . . forth, they will see only the blameless and the beautiful, the
gentle and the kind. They will be as careful to let no little act of
charity, no tiny expression of forgiveness, no little breathe of love
escape their notice. And they will return with all the happy things they
found, to share them lovingly with you. Be not afraid of THEM. They
offer you salvation. Theirs are the messages of safety, for they see the
world as kind.

Okay . . . that paragraph sounds a little Polly Anna, doesn’t it?  Oh,
sort of like the practice of positive thinking, overlooking what needs
to be looked at, right?  Pretending it’s not there, right?  Well, that’s
what the orphan thinks, that’s what the independent agent thinks.
Because the independent agent believes that he will succeed at becoming
real as a result of dealing with and overcoming all of the evil, all the
things that the messengers for fear have brought back to confirm that
there is danger and that he needs or she needs to protect himself or
herself.  You see?

If you send forth only the messengers the Holy Spirit gives you, . 

. . . which of course, takes trust because it’s not been your habit.

 If you send forth only the messengers the Holy Spirit gives you,
WANTING no messages but theirs, you will see fear no more. 

And the ego says, “Right!”  And you will be more vulnerable than you’ve
ever been before, because you’re ignoring the facts, you’re ignoring the
reality that this is a world of conflict, this is a polarized world in
which the positive and the negative are in constant content . . .
constant conflict with each other, constant contest with each other so
that there is a constant state of tension and misery.

And so you must face this suggestion and act contrary to it if you’re
going to reach out to the Holy Spirit and if you’re going to benefit
from the clarity of His teaching, the clarity which He will reveal to
you about what is true and what is real and what is not, and what you no
longer need to engage in.

The world will be transformed before your sight, cleansed of all guilt
and softly brushed with beauty. 

Now here’s the key:

The world contains no fear which you laid not upon it. 

As an orphan you’re convinced that there is a world “out there” that has
fearful things in it on its own, in its own right and you’re the
innocent victim of it.  It’s not true!  But you will not find that it’s
not true until you engage in the holy instant and follow through and
want no messages but the ones that Love’s messengers bring back to you.

The world contains no fear which you laid not upon it. And none you
cannot ask love's messengers to remove from it, and see it still. 

If you ask Love’s messengers to remove it, you will no longer be able to
see it.  Is that like an Ostrich sticking its head in the sand?  No it’s
not!  It’s like you sticking your periscope up into the Father’s
Perspective and seeing the truth in which fear is not present and the
results of fear are not present.

The Holy Spirit has given you His messengers to send to each other, . . 

. . . your Brothers and Sisters and every part of Creation . . .

. . . and return to each with what love sees. They have been given to
replace the hungry dogs of fear you sent instead. And they go forth to
signify the END of fear.

Now this may all sound very impractical.  Because you look out on a
world and the very air-waves are full of pronouncements of threat and
conspiracy and planned hatred and plots to undermine the peace of
mankind,  and it all seems to be very real and something that something
must be done about.  

But I’ve got to tell you something for perspective:  You see a world
full of microbes, germs, things that transmit disease, tendencies for
bodies to be flawed and suddenly be sent into a tailspin of
degeneration.  You take medication to protect yourself against this
virus or that germ because, not the air-waves, but the very air seems to
be laden with danger.  

Well, I will tell you something:  There are people all around this globe
who consciously and consistently engage in healing.  And they do it by
not paying attention to the messengers that would come back that say,
“Oh, this body is terminally ill, this organ is actually being eaten
away by this, that or the other thing.”  These people engaging in
healing do not govern themselves according to the messengers which come
and claim that there is uncorrectable disease, uncorrectable damage.  

This is important.  

They insist upon, in there way, practicing the two-step and saying,
“Father, what is the truth here?  Father, I know that what is presenting
itself, the messengers that are coming to me are not telling me the
God’s honest truth.  They are lying!  No matter what x-ray shows what’s
happening, no matter how much physical evidence there is to it, I know
that it is not Your Will, therefore, I am not going to trust these
messengers.  I am not going to attempt to cope with this as an
independent agent, as one among many.  But I choose to join with You
Father, and listen for Your Voice, to have You reveal to me the truth
that proves the lie to be a lie,  to prove that the messengers are not
legitimate or believable.  And I’m going to stay with my connection with
You until I see the evidence.”

And the key is: That healings occur every day of every sort, from the
eradication of terminal illness, to a festered sliver coming out
spontaneously from a finger that it was embedded in.

Being the One that constitutes the many, means that there are no
messages . . 

. . . words of bones and skin and flesh . . .

. . . because in the holy instant is where the Father’s laws prevail,
where the laws of Creation prevail.  

And so when those who practice healing everyday on this globe and
experience the healings, they are demonstrating the fact that not anyone
needs to believe the messengers of fear that they have sent out and that
have come back and disturbed things.  And without engaging in conflict,
but engaging in joining with the Father or the Holy Spirit or me and
turning around and looking at the situation with Us, they find NOTHING
THERE.  In other words, they discover what could be called spontaneous
healing, even instantaneous healing.  You see?

You listen to the news and you don’t join while you’re listening, and
you come to the conclusion that:  “Man, you gotta go out and get those
bastards.  Do somethin to ‘em!    Make  ‘em  hurt  until   they   stop!”
Keep   your   attention  on what the messengers for fear have returned
to you—the negative interpretations, even the apparent behaviors of
people, which like an organ being consumed by cancer seems to state is
something real to be forced out of the situation, forced out of the
world.  No.  Stop it!  

When you hear these things and you’re inclined to believe them and get
revved up about it, riled up about it, so that you send out even more
messengers of fear looking for further confirmation of how dangerous
things are so that you might bring more force into play in changing
something, which if you practice the holy instant, will become obvious
to you is an illusion, no matter how real it seems to be.

Again, I must return to this:  Diseases are healed every day, not by
forcing a body, not by forcing a physical process to change, but by
abandoning the perspective from the orphanage, joining with the Holy
Spirit or the Father or me or your Guide where We are, and turning
around and looking at what prompted you to join Us from Our vantage
point. 

Healing occurs and it’s miraculous because force is never involved.

If you send forth only the messengers the Holy Spirit gives you, WANTING
no messages but theirs, you will see fear no more. 

You will see no cancer consumed organ.  And the x-rays will say there is
perfection here.  Because there is a God and there is Creation, and the
Creation is as perfect as the singularity of the Father, which disallows
for polarization, conflict.  This is the truth.

Again, it happens as a result of your coming to where We are and turning
around and looking with Us at the place you came from, so that you might
see it with Our Perspective, with your true Perspective, free of
delusions.

Then you could say:

Love, too, would set a feast before you, on a table covered with a
spotless cloth, set in a quiet garden where no sound but singing and a
softly joyous whispering is ever heard. 

“Oh, yeah, this is too good to be true, this is fantasy.”  Embrace it as
the truth, else you will stand in denial of it and distance yourself
from its experience.

This is a feast which honors your holy relationship, and at which
everyone is welcomed as an honored guest. 

Even the ones whom before you practiced the holy instant, seemed to be
the justification for your suffering, that it would have seemed could
receive no relief without the bringing of force to bear upon the
“bastard” or “bastards.” 

And in a holy instant grace is said by everyone together, as they join
in gentleness before the table of communion. And I will join you there,
as long ago I promised and promise still. For in your new relationship
am I made welcome. And where I am made welcome, there I AM.

Where I am welcome, there is the Holy Spirit.  Where I am welcome, there
is the Father.  And where I am welcome, there is You.   And where I am
and where You are, there is no “bastard” to be dealt with.

The belief is that cancer—most forms of cancer—are terminal.  There are
beliefs that other forms of disease are terminal, but healing of them is
occurring everyday through the shift, in one form or another, from being
one amongst the many to being the one that constitutes the many because
you have let the One that constitutes the many be your Mind.  And you
are willing to look at everything from the vantage point of that Mind
which is the One that constitutes the many—meaning God.  And in that act
you come into the full conscious experience of your, capital “S” Self.
That’s what this is all about.

I love you all.  And I look forward to being with you next time.

Chapter 19 – Section: THE ATTRACTION OF GUILT Sparkly Book – p.462,2nd
Full Par.   /   JCIM – p.193, 5th Full Par.   /   CIMS – p.389, Par. 51
First Edition  –  p. 382, 2nd Full Par. Line 8   /    Second Edition –
p.410, Par. 11, Line 6

