---
chapter: Fifteen
ctitle: The Purpose of Time
title: The Holy Instant and Real Relationships
ref: T15.8
---

The holy instant does not replace the need for learning, for the Holy
Spirit must not leave you as your Teacher until the holy instant has
extended far beyond time. For a teaching assignment such as His, He must
use everything in this world for your release. He must side with every
sign or token of your willingness to learn of Him what the truth must
be. He is swift to utilize whatever you offer Him on behalf of this. His
concern and care for you are limitless. In the face of your FEAR of
forgiveness, which He perceives as clearly as He knows forgiveness is
RELEASE, He will teach you to remember that forgiveness is not loss, but
your SALVATION. And that in
COMPLETE forgiveness, in which you recognize that there is nothing to
forgive, YOU are absolved completely.

Hear him gladly, and learn of Him that you have need of no special
relationships at all. You but seek in them what you have thrown away.
And through them you will never learn the value of what you have cast
aside, but what you still desire with all your hearts. Let us join
together in making the holy instant all that there is, by desiring that
it BE all that there is. God’s Son has such great need of your
willingness to strive for this that you cannot conceive of need so
great. Behold the only need that God and His Son share, and will to meet
together. You are not alone in this. The will of your creations call to
you, to share your will with them. Turn, then, in peace from guilt to
God and them.

Relate only with what will NEVER leave you, and what YOU can never
leave. The loneliness of God’s Son is the loneliness of his Father.
Refuse not the awareness of your completion, and seek not to restore it
to yourselves. Fear not to give redemption over to your Redeemer’s Love.
He will not fail you, for He comes from One Who CANNOT fail. Accept YOUR
sense of failure as nothing more than a mistake in who you are. For the
holy host of God is beyond failure, and nothing that he wills can BE
denied. You are forever in a relationship so holy that it calls to
everyone to escape from loneliness, and join you in your love. And where
you are must everyone seek, and FIND you there.

Think but an instant on this: God gave the Sonship to you, to ensure
your perfect creation. This was His Gift, for as He withheld Himself not
from you, He withheld not His creation. Nothing that ever was created
but is yours. Your relationships are with the universe. And this
universe, being of God, is far beyond the petty sum of all the separate
bodies YOU perceive. For all its parts are joined in God through Christ,
where they become like to their Father. For Christ knows of no
separation from His Father,Who is His One relationship, in which He
gives as His Father gives to Him.

The Holy Spirit is God’s attempt to free you of what He does not
understand. And because of the Source of the attempt, it will
SUCCEED. The Holy Spirit asks you to respond as God does, for He would
teach you what YOU do not understand. God would respond
to EVERY need, whatever form it takes. And so He has kept this channel
open to receive His communication to you, and yours to Him. God does not
understand your problem in communication, for He does not share it with
you. It is only you who believe that it IS understandable.

The Holy Spirit knows that it is not understandable, and yet He
understands it because you have MADE it. In Him alone lies the awareness
of what God cannot know, and what you do not understand. It is His holy
function to accept them both, and by removing every element of
disagreement, to join them into one. He will do this BECAUSE it is His
function. Leave, then, what seems to you to be impossible to Him Who
knows it MUST be possible because it is the Will of God. And let Him
Whose teaching is ONLY of God teach you the ONLY meaning of
relationships. For God created the only relationship which has meaning,
and that is His relationship with YOU.

As the ego would limit your perception of your brothers to the body, so
would the Holy Spirit release your vision and let you see the great rays
shining from them, so unlimited that they reach to God. It is this shift
in vision which is accomplished in the holy instant. Yet it is needful
for you to learn just what this shift entails, so you will become
willing to make it permanent. Given this willingness it will not leave
you, for it IS permanent. For once you have accepted it as the only
perception you WANT, it is translated into knowledge by the part which
God Himself plays in the Atonement, for it is the only step in it He
understands. Therefore, in this there will be no delay when you are
ready for it. God is ready NOW, but YOU are not.

Our task is but to continue, as fast as possible, the necessary process
of looking straight at all the interference, and seeing it EXACTLY as it
is. For it is impossible to recognize as wholly WITHOUT gratification
what you think you WANT. The body is the symbol of the ego, as the ego
is the symbol of the separation. And both are nothing more than attempts
to limit communication, and thereby to make it impossible. For
communication must be unlimited in order to have meaning, and DEPRIVED
of meaning it will not satisfy you completely. Yet it remains the only
means by which you can establish real relationships.

Real relationships HAVE no limits, having been established by God. In
the holy instant, where the great rays REPLACE the body in awareness,
the recognition of relationships without limits is given you. But to see
this, it is necessary to give up every use the ego has for the body, and
to accept the fact that the ego has NO purpose you would share with it.
For the ego would limit everyone to a body for ITS purposes, and while
you think it HAS a purpose, you will choose to utilize the means by
which IT tries to turn its purpose into accomplishment. This will never
BE accomplished. Yet you have surely recognized that the ego, whose
goals are altogether unattainable, will strive for them with all its
might, and will do so with the strength which YOU have given it.

It is impossible to divide your strength between Heaven and hell, God
and the ego, and release your power unto creation, which is the only
purpose for which it was given you. Love would ALWAYS give increase.
Limits are demanded by the ego, representing its demands to make little
and ineffectual. Limit your vision of a brother to his body, which you
WILL do as long as you would not release him from it, and you have
denied his gift to YOU. His body CANNOT give it. And seek it not through
YOURS. Yet your minds are ALREADY continuous, and their union need only
be accepted, and the loneliness in Heaven is gone.

If you would but let the Holy Spirit tell you of the Love of God for
you, and the need your creations have to be with you forever, you would
experience the attraction of the eternal. No-one can hear Him speak of
this and long remain willing to linger here. For it IS your will to be
in Heaven, where you are complete and quiet, in such sure and loving
relationships that ANY limit is impossible. Would you not exchange your
little relationships for this? For the body IS little and limited, and
only those whom you would see WITHOUT the limits the ego would impose on
them can offer you the gift of freedom.

You have no conception of the limits you have placed on your perception,
and no idea of all the loveliness that you could see. But this you must
remember; the attraction of guilt OPPOSES the attraction of God. His
attraction for you remains unlimited, but because your power, being His,
is as great as His, you can turn away from love. What you invest in
guilt you withdraw from God. And
your sight grows weak and dim and limited, for you have attempted to
separate the Father from the Son, and limit their communication. Seek
not Atonement in FURTHER separation. And limit not your vision of God’s
Son to what INTERFERES with his release, and what the Holy Spirit must
UNDO to set him free. For his belief in limits HAS imprisoned him.

When the body ceases to attract you, and when you place no value on it
as a means for getting ANYTHING, then there will be no interference in
communication, and your thoughts will be as free as God’s. As you let
the Holy Spirit teach you how to use the body ONLY for purposes of
communication, and renounce its use for separation and attack which the
ego sees in it, you will learn you have no need of a body at all. In the
holy instant there ARE no bodies, and you experience only the attraction
of God. Accepting it as undivided you join Him wholly, in an instant.
The reality of this relationship becomes the only truth that you could
ever WANT. All truth IS here.

