---
chapter: Fifteen
ctitle: The Purpose of Time
title: The Holy Instant and the Laws of God
ref: T15.6
---

All separation vanishes as holiness is shared. For holiness is power,
and by sharing it, it GAINS in strength. If you seek for satisfaction in
gratifying your needs as YOU perceive them, you must believe that
strength comes from another, and what YOU gain HE LOSES. Someone must
ALWAYS lose, if you perceive yourself as weak. Yet there is another
interpretation of relationships which transcends the concept of loss of
power completely.

You do not find it difficult to believe that, when another calls on God
for love, YOUR call remains as strong. Nor do you think that, by God’s
answer to him, YOUR hope of answer is diminished. On the contrary, you
are far more inclined to regard his success as witness to the
possibility of YOURS. That is because you recognize, however dimly, that
God is an IDEA, and so your faith in Him is STRENGTHENED by sharing. What
you find difficult to accept is the fact that, like your Father, YOU are
an idea. And like Him, you can give yourself completely, WHOLLY without
loss and ONLY with gain.

Herein lies peace, for here there IS no conflict. In the world of
scarcity love has no meaning, and peace is impossible. For gain and loss
are BOTH accepted, and so no-one is aware that perfect love is in him.
In the holy instant, you recognize the IDEA of love in you, and unite
this idea with the Mind that thought It, and could not RELINQUISH it. By
holding it within Itself, there WAS no loss. The holy instant thus
becomes a lesson in how to hold all of your brothers in your mind,
experiencing not loss, but COMPLETION. From this, it follows you can
ONLY give. And this IS love, for this alone is natural, under the laws
of God.

In the holy instant the laws of God prevail, and only they have meaning.
The laws of this world cease to hold any meaning at all. When the Son of
God accepts the laws of God as what he gladly wills, it is impossible
that he be bound, or limited in any way. In this instant, he is as free
as God would have him be. For the instant he REFUSES to be bound, he is
NOT bound.

In the holy instant, nothing happens that has not always been. Only the
veil that has been drawn ACROSS reality is lifted. Nothing has
changed. Yet the AWARENESS of changelessness comes swiftly as the veil of
time is pushed aside. No-one who has not yet
experienced the lifting of the veil, and felt himself drawn irresistibly
into the light behind it, can have faith in love WITHOUT fear. Yet the
Holy Spirit GIVES you this faith, because He offered it to me and I
ACCEPTED it. Fear not the holy instant will be denied you, for I denied
it not. And through me the Holy Spirit gave it unto you, as YOU will
give it. Let no need that you perceive obscure your need of this. For in
the holy instant, you will recognize the only need the aspects of the
Son of God share equally, and by this recognition you will join with me
in OFFERING what is needed.

It is through US that peace will come. Join me in the IDEA of peace, for
in ideas minds CAN communicate. If you would give YOURSELF as your
Father gives His Self, you will learn to understand Selfhood. And
therein is love’s meaning understood. But remember that understanding is
of the MIND, and ONLY of the mind. Knowledge is therefore of the mind,
and its conditions are in the mind with it. If you were not only an
idea, and NOTHING ELSE, you could not be in full communication with all
that ever was. Yet as long as you PREFER to be something else, or would
attempt to be nothing else and something else TOGETHER, the language of
communication, which you know perfectly, you will not remember.

In the holy instant God is remembered, and the language of communication
with all your brothers is remembered with Him. For communication is
remembered TOGETHER, as is truth. There is no exclusion in the holy
instant because the past is gone, and with it goes the whole BASIS for
exclusion. Without its source exclusion vanishes. And this permits YOUR
Source, and that of all your brothers, to replace it in your awareness.
God and the power of God will take their rightful place in you, and you
will experience the full communication of ideas with ideas. Through your
ability to do this you will learn what you MUST be, for you will begin
to understand what your Creator is, and what His creation is along with
Him.

