---
chapter: Fifteen
ctitle: The Purpose of Time
title: Littleness versus Magnitude
ref: T15.3
---

Be not content with littleness, but be sure you understand what
littleness is, and why you could never BE content with it. Littleness is
the offering you gave YOURSELF. You offered this in place of magnitude,
and you ACCEPTED it. Everything in this world is little because it is a
world made out of littleness, in the strange belief that littleness can
content you. When you strive for anything in this world with the belief
that it will bring you peace, you are belittling yourself, and blinding
yourself to glory. Littleness and glory are the choices open to your
striving and your vigilance. You will always choose one at the EXPENSE
of the other.

Yet what you do not realize, each time you choose, is that your choice
is your evaluation of YOURSELF. Choose littleness and you will not have
peace, for you will have judged yourself unworthy of it. And whatever
you offer as a substitute is much too poor a gift to satisfy you. It is
essential that you accept the fact, and accept it gladly, that there is
no form of littleness that can EVER content you. You are free to try as
many as you wish, but all you will be doing is to delay your homecoming.
For you will be content only in magnitude, which is your home.

There is a deep responsibility you owe yourself, and one which you must
learn to remember all the time. The lesson will seem hard at first, but
you will learn to love it when you realize that it is true, and
constitutes a tribute to your power. You who have sought and found
littleness, remember this: Every decision which you make stems from what
you think you ARE, and represents the value that you PUT upon yourself.
Believe the little can content you, and by limiting yourself, you will
not be satisfied. For your function is NOT little, and it is only by
finding your function and fulfilling it that you can escape from
littleness.

There is no doubt about what your function is, for the Holy Spirit KNOWS
what it is. There is no doubt about its magnitude, for it reaches you
through Him FROM Magnitude. You do not have to strive for it, because you
HAVE it. All your striving must be directed AGAINST littleness, for it
DOES require vigilance to protect your magnitude in this world. To hold
your magnitude in perfect awareness in a world of littleness is a task
the little cannot undertake.  Yet it is asked of you, in tribute to your
magnitude and NOT your littleness. Nor is it asked of you alone.

The power of God will support every effort you make on behalf of His
dear Son. Search for the little, and you deny yourself His power. God is
not willing that His Son be content with less than everything. For He is
not content without His Son, and His Son cannot be content with less
than His Father has given him. We asked you once before,“Would you be
hostage to the ego or host to God?” Let this question be asked you by
the Holy Spirit in you every time you make a decision. For every
decision you make DOES answer this, and invites sorrow or joy
accordingly.

When God gave Himself to you in your creation, He established you as
host to Him forever. He has not left you, and you have not left Him. All
your attempts to deny His magnitude, and make His Son hostage to the
ego, cannot make little whom God has joined with Him. Every decision you
make is for Heaven or for hell, and will bring you awareness of what you
decided FOR. The Holy Spirit can hold your magnitude, clean of all
littleness, clearly and in perfect safety in your minds, untouched by
every little gift the world of littleness would offer you. But for this,
you cannot side AGAINST Him in what He wills for you.

Decide for God through Him. For littleness, and the belief that you can
be content with littleness, are the decisions you have made about
yourself. The power and the glory that lie in you from God are for all
who, like you, perceive themselves as little, and have deceived
themselves into believing that littleness can be blown up by them into a
sense of magnitude that can content them. Neither give littleness, nor
accept it. All honor is due the host of God. Your littleness deceives
you, but your magnitude is of Him Who dwells in you, and in Whom you
dwell. Touch no-one, then, with littleness in the Name of Christ,
eternal Host unto His Father.

In this season (Christmas), which celebrates the birth of holiness into
this world, join with me who decided for holiness for YOU. It is our
task TOGETHER to restore the awareness of magnitude to the host whom God
appointed for Himself. It is beyond all your littleness to give the gift
of God, but NOT beyond YOU. For God would give Himself through you. He
reaches from you to everyone,
and beyond everyone to His Son’s creations, but without leaving you. Far
beyond your little world, but still in you, He extends forever. Yet He
brings all his extensions to you, as host to Him.

Is it a sacrifice to leave littleness behind, and wander not in vain? It
is not sacrifice to wake to glory. But it IS a sacrifice to accept
anything LESS than glory. Learn that you MUST be worthy of the Prince of
Peace, born in you in honor of Him Whose host you are. You know not what
love means because you have sought to purchase it with little gifts,
thus valuing it too little to be able to understand its magnitude. Love
is NOT little, and love dwells in you, for you are host to Him. Before
the greatness that lives in you, your poor appreciation of yourself and
all the little offerings you have given slip into nothingness. Holy
Child of God, when will you learn that ONLY holiness can content you and
give you peace?

Remember that you learn not for yourself alone, no more than I did. It
is BECAUSE I learned for you that you can learn of me. I would but teach
you what is yours, so that together we can replace the shabby littleness
that binds the host of God to guilt and weakness with the glad awareness
of the glory that is in him. My birth in you is your awakening to
grandeur. Welcome me not into a manger, but into the altar to holiness,
where holiness abides in perfect peace. My Kingdom is not of this world
because it is in YOU. And you are of your Father. Let us join in
honoring you, who must remain forever beyond littleness.

Decide with me, who have decided to abide with you. I will as my Father
wills, knowing His Will is constant, and at peace forever with
Itself. You will be content with nothing BUT His Will. Accept no less,
remembering that everything I learned is yours. What my Father loves I
love as He does, and I can no more accept it as what it is not than He
can. And no more can YOU. When you have learned to accept what you are,
you will make no more gifts to offer to yourselves, for you will know
you are complete, in need of nothing, and unable to accept ANYTHING for
yourself. But you will gladly give, HAVING received. The host of God
needs not seek to find anything.

If you are wholly willing to leave salvation to the plan of God, and
unwilling to attempt to grasp for peace yourself, salvation will be
GIVEN you. Yet think not you can substitute your plan for His. Rather,
join with me in His, that we may release all those who would be bound,
proclaiming together that the Son of God is host to Him. Thus will we
let no-one forget what YOU would remember. And thus will you remember
it.

Call forth in everyone only the remembrance of God, and of the Heaven
that is in him. For where you would help your brother be, there will you
think YOU are. Hear not his call for hell and littleness, but only his
call for Heaven and greatness. Forget not that his call is yours, and
answer him with me. God’s power is forever on the side of His host, for
it protects only the peace in which He dwells. Lay not littleness before
His holy altar, which rises above the stars and reaches even to Heaven
because of what is given it.

