---
chapter: Fifteen
ctitle: The Purpose of Time
title: The Uses of Time
ref: T15.1
---

The ego is an ally of time, but not a friend. For it is as mistrustful
of death as it is of life, and what it wants for you it cannot tolerate.
The ego wants YOU dead, but NOT itself. The outcome of its strange
religion must therefore be the conviction that it can pursue you beyond
the grave. And out of its unwillingness for you to find peace even in
the death it wants for you, it offers you immortality in hell. It speaks
to you of Heaven, but assures you that Heaven is not for you. How can
the guilty hope for Heaven? The belief in hell is inescapable to those
who identify with the ego. Their nightmares and their fears are all
associated with it.

The ego teaches that hell is in the FUTURE, for this is what all its
teaching is directed to. Hell is its GOAL. For, although the ego aims at
death and dissolution as an end, it does not BELIEVE it. The goal of
death, which it craves for you, leaves it unsatisfied. No-one who
follows the ego’s teaching is without the fear of death. Yet if death
were thought of merely as an end to pain, would it be FEARED? We have
seen this strange paradox in the ego’s thought system before, but never
so clearly as here. For the ego must seem to KEEP fear from you to keep
your allegiance. Yet it must ENGENDER fear in order to maintain ITSELF.

Again the ego tries, and all too frequently succeeds, in doing both, by
using dissociation for holding its contradictory aims together so that
they SEEM to be reconciled. The ego teaches thus: Death is the end as far
as hope of Heaven goes. Yet because you and itself cannot be separated,
and because it cannot conceive of its OWN death, it will pursue you
still, because guilt is eternal. Such is the ego’s version of
immortality. And it is this the ego’s version of time supports.

The ego teaches that Heaven is here and now because the FUTURE is hell.
Even when it attacks so savagely that it tries to take the life of
someone who hears it temporarily as the ONLY voice, it speaks of hell
even to him. For it tells him hell is HERE, and bids him leap from hell
into oblivion. The only time the ego allows anyone to look upon with some
amount of equanimity is the past. And even there, its only value is that
it is no more.

How bleak and despairing is the ego’s use of time! And how terrifying!
For underneath its fanatical insistence that the past and future be the
same is hidden a far more insidious threat to peace. The ego does not
advertise its final threat, for it would have its worshippers still
believe that it can offer the ESCAPE from it. But the belief in guilt
MUST lead to the belief in hell, AND ALWAYS DOES. The only way in which
the ego allows the fear of hell to be experienced is to bring hell HERE,
but always as a foretaste of the future. For no-one who considers
himself as deserving hell can believe that punishment will end in peace.

The Holy Spirit teaches thus:There IS no hell. Hell is only what the ego
has made of the PRESENT. The belief in hell is what prevents you from
UNDERSTANDING the present, because you are AFRAID of it. The Holy Spirit
leads as steadily to Heaven as the ego drives to hell. For the Holy
Spirit, Who knows ONLY the present, uses it to undo the fear by which
the ego would make the present useless. There is NO escape from fear in
the ego’s use of time. For time, according to its teaching, is nothing
but a teaching device for COMPOUNDING guilt until it becomes
all-encompassing, and demands vengeance forever.

The Holy Spirit would undo all of this NOW. Fear is NOT of the present,
but only of the past and future, which do not exist. There is no fear in
the present when each instant stands clear and separated from the past,
without its shadow reaching out into the future. Each instant is a
clean, untarnished birth, in which the Son of God emerges from the past
into the present. And the present extends forever. It is so beautiful
and so clean and free of guilt that nothing but happiness is there. No
darkness is remembered, and immortality and joy are NOW.

This lesson takes NO time. For what is time without a past and future?
It HAS taken time to misguide you so completely, but it takes no time at
all to be what you ARE. Begin to practice the Holy Spirit’s use of time
as a teaching aid to happiness and peace. Take this very instant, NOW,
and think of it as ALL THERE IS of time. Nothing can reach you here out
of the past, and it is here that you are COMPLETELY absolved, COMPLETELY
free, and WHOLLY without condemnation. From this holy instant wherein
holiness was born again you will go forth in time without fear, and with
no sense of change WITH time.

Time is inconceivable without change, yet holiness does not change.
Learn from this instant more than merely hell does not exist. In this
redeeming instant lies Heaven. And Heaven will not change, for the birth
into the holy present is SALVATION from change.

Change is an illusion, taught by those who could not see themselves as
guiltless. There is no change in Heaven because there is no change in
God. In the holy instant in which you see yourself as bright with
freedom, you WILL remember God. For remembering Him IS to remember
freedom.

Whenever you are tempted to be dispirited by the thought of how long it
would take to change your mind so completely, ask yourself, “How long is
an instant?” Could you not give so short a time to the Holy Spirit for
your salvation? He asks no more, for He has no need of more. It takes
far longer to teach you how to be willing to give Him this than for Him
to use this tiny instant to offer you the whole of Heaven. In exchange
for this instant, He stands ready to give you the remembrance of
eternity.

You will never give this holy instant to the Holy Spirit on behalf of
your release while you are unwilling to give it to your brothers on
behalf of THEIRS. For the instant of holiness is shared, and cannot be
yours alone. Remember, then, when you are tempted to attack a brother,
that HIS instant of release is YOURS. Miracles are the instants of
release you offer, and will RECEIVE. They attest to your willingness to
BE released, and to offer time to the Holy Spirit for His use of it. How
long is an instant? It is as short for your brother as it is for you.
Practice giving this blessed instant of freedom to all who are enslaved
by time, and thus make time their friend FOR them. The Holy Spirit gives
their blessed instant to YOU through your giving it. As you give it, He
offers it to YOU.

Be not unwilling to give what you would receive of Him, for you join
with Him in giving. In the crystal cleanness of the release you give is
your INSTANTANEOUS escape from guilt. You MUST be holy if you offer
holiness. How long is an instant? As long as it takes to re-establish
perfect sanity, perfect peace, and perfect love for everyone, for God,
and for YOURSELF. As long as it takes to remember immortality, and your
immortal creations who share it with you. As long as it takes to
exchange hell for Heaven. Long enough to transcend all of the ego’s
making, and ascend unto your Father.

Time is your friend, if you leave it to the Holy Spirit to use. He needs
but very little to restore God’s whole power to you. He Who transcends
time for you understands what time is FOR. Holiness lies
not in time, but in eternity. There never was an instant in which God’s
Son could lose his purity. His changeless state is beyond time, for his
purity remains forever beyond attack and without variability. Time
stands still in his holiness, and changes not. And so it is no longer
time at all. For, caught in the single instant of the eternal sanctity
of God’s creation, it is transformed into forever. GIVE the eternal
instant, that eternity may be remembered FOR you, in that shining
instant of perfect release. Offer the miracle of the holy instant
through the Holy Spirit, and leave His giving it to you to Him.

