---
chapter: Twenty Three
ctitle: The War Against Yourself
title: The Fear of Life
ref: T23.4
---

The fear of God is fear of LIFE, and not of death. Yet He remains the
only place of safety. In Him is no attack, and no illusion in any form
stalks Heaven. Heaven is wholly true. No difference enters, and what is
all the same cannot conflict. You are not asked to fight against your
wish to murder. But you ARE asked to realize the form it takes conceals
the same intent. And it is THIS you fear, and not the form. What is not
love is murder. What is not loving MUST be an attack. Every illusion is
an assault on truth, and every one does violence to the idea of love
because it seems to be of EQUAL truth.

What can be equal to the truth, yet different? Murder and love are
incompatible. Yet if they both are true, then must they be the same, and
indistinguishable from one another. So will they be to those who see
God’s Son a body. For it is not the body that is like the Son’s Creator.
And what is lifeless cannot BE the Son of Life. How can a body be
extended to hold the universe? Can it create, and BE what it creates?
And can it offer its creations all that it is, and never suffer loss?

God does not share His function with a body. He gave the function to
create unto His Son because it is His Own. It is not sinful to believe
the function of the Son is murder, but it IS insanity. What is the same
can HAVE no different function. Creation is the means for God’s
extension, and what is His must be His Son’s as well. Either the Father
AND the Son are murderers, or neither is. Life makes not death, creating
like itself.

The lovely light of your relationship is like the love of God. It cannot
yet assume the holy function God gave His Son, for your forgiveness of
one another is not complete as yet, and so it cannot be
extended to all creation. Each form of murder and attack that still
attracts you, and that you do not recognize for what it is, limits the
healing and the miracles you have the power to extend to all. Yet does
the Holy Spirit understand how to increase your little gifts, and make
them mighty. Also He understands how your relationship is raised above
the battleground, in it no more. This is your part; to realize that
murder in ANY form is not your will. The OVERLOOKING of the battleground
is now your purpose.

Be lifted up, and from a higher place look down upon it. From there will
your perspective be quite different. Here in the midst of it, it DOES
seem real. Here you have CHOSEN to be part of it. Here murder IS your
choice. Yet from above, the choice is miracles instead of murder. And the
perspective coming from this choice shows you the battle is not real,
and easily escaped. Bodies may battle, but the clash of forms is
meaningless. And it is over when you realize that it never was begun.
How can a battle be perceived as nothingness when you engage in it? How
can the truth of miracles be recognized if murder is your choice?

When the temptation to attack rises to make your mind darkened and
murderous, remember you CAN see the battle from above. Even in forms you
do not recognize, the signs you know. There is a stab of pain, a twinge
of guilt, and above all, a loss of peace. This you know well. When it
occurs, leave not your place on high, but quickly choose a miracle
INSTEAD of murder. And God Himself and all the lights of Heaven will
gently lean to you, and hold you up. For you have chosen to remain where
He would have you, and NO illusion can attack the peace of God together
with His Son.

See no-one from the battleground, for there you look on him from
nowhere. You have no reference-point from where to look, where meaning
can be given what you see. For only bodies could attack and murder, and
if this is your purpose, then you must be one with them. Only a purpose
unifies, and those who share a purpose have a mind as one. The body HAS
no purpose, and must be solitary. From below, it cannot be surmounted.
From above, the limits it exerts on those in battle still are gone, and
not perceived. The body stands between the Father and the Heaven He
created for His Son BECAUSE it has no purpose.

Think what is given those who share their Father’s purpose, and who know
that it is theirs! They want for nothing. Sorrow of any kind is
inconceivable. Only the light they love is in awareness, and only love
shines upon them forever. It is their past, their present and their
future; always the same, eternally complete and wholly shared. They know
it is impossible their happiness could ever suffer change of any kind.
Perhaps you think the battleground can offer something that you can win.
Can it be any thing that offers you a perfect calmness, and a sense of
love so deep and quiet that no touch of doubt can ever mar your
certainty? And that will last forever?

Those with the strength of God in their awareness could never think of
battle. What could they gain but LOSS of their perfection? For
everything fought for on the battleground is of the body; something it
seems to offer or to own. No-one who knows that he has everything could
seek for limitation, nor could he value the body’s offerings. The
senselessness of conquest is quite apparent from the quiet sphere above
the battleground. What can conflict with everything? And what is there
that offers less yet could be wanted more? Who with the Love of God
upholding him could find the choice of miracles or murder hard to make?

