---
title: Apr 25, 2015
ref: T19.6 Obstacles to Peace; Belief the Body is Valuable... (*)
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

Let’s go back to the Beginning. A little refresher helps.

In the Beginning there was peace. In the Beginning there was fullness. In the
Beginning there was indivisible wholeness. In the Beginning was the experience
of omnipotence. The only thing was, that omnipotence wasn’t something enacted
by the Sons and Daughters and God. It was, rather, experienced as
invulnerability—the absence of any call for any act of authority whatsoever.
And Being—the experience of Being—was the conscious experience of the Movement
of Creation in its pristine perfection because there was nothing present in the
omnipresence of God to create a distortion of any sort.

And so again, in the Beginning, there was peace. Then as we’ve discussed
through the years, a decision was made by two or more Sons and Daughters of
God. They said to each other in so many words, “Let’s pretend &hellip; let’s
pretend that the tree is not an idea, but is something quite physically
tangible in its own right and it derives its life from moisture from the ground
it is growing in. And in fact, it is growing in the ground—lets decide that
for sure. It is not what we have experienced it to be—the ever-present
illuminated Presence of the Love of God exhibiting Life, Truth, Intelligence,
Principle, Mind, Soul and Spirit as is the ground, as is the moisture, and
nothing is living off of anything else.  But no, let’s pretend otherwise.
Let’s agree together, let’s decide to imagine and make commitment to our
imagination.”

Now, as we’ve discussed, something happened that was quite surprising. Because
after all, this “decision” was made by those who had experienced omnipotence,
meaning invulnerability—eternal  unchangeable harmony of Being. And so when
this decision to stop referring everything that they were experiencing back to
the Father, which was their part in the Movement of Creation—their co-creative
part—they, in effect, divorced themselves from That which was Being them, That
which was expressing Itself and appearing as Them. And the surprise was, that
the experience of omnipotence vanished. It wasn’t expected, because the
decision was being made by those who knew they were omnipotent.

Now two things came into play instantaneously and automatically. And the
reason it came into play was because it was the innate sanity of the Sons and
Daughters of God who were going to pretend to be disconnected from their
Source. The sanity that was making it clear at an experiential level that they
could not become something less than what the Father was Being them as,
couldn’t happen without the experience of dissonance—something that said,
“don’t do this, it is impossible. You will discover the impossibility of it.
And while you are discovering the impossibility of it, you will not be
comfortable because you will be in a state of Self-denial.”

And two things came into play—like two sides of a coin: The first was fear,
although they didn’t come in a specific order, they came simultaneously, and
the second was guilt. Fear and guilt inundated them. Nevertheless, because
they still knew they were omnipotent even though they couldn’t understand why
they weren’t experiencing it, they insisted upon being independent with more
intensity, with more willfulness. The act of independence was the obstacle to
peace.

The act of independence which brought into play fear and guilt, was the
obstacle to peace. It was that which disallowed for That which was from the
Beginning and still was the Fact and the purpose of It was to say, “don’t
proceed any further down this path.”  But the desire for power, the desire to
engage in an action which would defeat the fear and the guilt was brought into
play.

And so, the obstacle to peace, which was the act of independence, took on some
additional character—four characteristics. And right now in this place in the
Course, these four things are being discussed. And we are resuming in the
second section of the OBSTACLES TO PEACE, entitled: The Belief the Body is
Valuable for What it Offers. And although I said we would start on a certain
paragraph, I am moving back to the beginning, about six paragraphs of this
section.

It says:

<div class="well book">
We said that peace must first surmount the obstacle of your desire to get rid
of it.
</div>

Interesting. Now we’ve discussed this previously. But why would you want to
get rid of the peace? You would want to get rid of the peace because it would
mean you would lose this sense of authority—this sense of independent power,
willfulness, that causes you to seem to be of importance all by yourself on
your own.

Why would you want peace when it requires you to lose an experience of
strength—of having a will of your own? Well, only because you don’t realize
that it’s an illusion. But because you don’t, you held onto it, and exercised
it with more fervor.

Continuing &hellip;

<div class="well book">
Where the attraction of guilt holds sway, peace is not WANTED.
</div> 

Well, you know, this will come up later. Another reason not to abandon this
thrill—the hit of independent willful action, and the promise of personal power
that it seems to hold. Why would you want to let go of that if it meant
returning to the Father &hellip; deferring to the Father, honoring the Father,
wouldn’t your disobedience be punished? You see?

That’s another reason—that is the fourth reason for not embracing your peace
once again. And that’s an illusion too, caused by the fact that everything
you’re perceiving now is in the imagination and isn’t true and isn’t real.
Again:

<div class="well book">
Where the attraction of guilt holds sway, peace is not WANTED.
</div> 

And let’s be very clear. If you are not joined constantly with That which is
nothing more than your right Mind—the Holy Spirit—and if you are not joined
with me all the time, if you are not companioning with That or those which are
Awake, you are in the realm of imagination. You are where fear and guilt
govern and you are where fear and guilt govern the way you experience
everything including the return Home &hellip; including your return to embrace the
Holy Spirit &hellip; including your willingness to join with me. All of it is
colored by fear and guilt.

And so, there is resistance—obstacles to peace.

Now, to summarize what we’ve discussed in the previous chapter, the previous
section &hellip;

PAUL: I’m sorry. This is me, Paul, I lost it &hellip; just a moment &hellip;

RAJ: Continuing &hellip; in the first paragraph of the Obstacles to Peace, Part
II:

<div class="well book">
The second obstacle that peace must flow across, and closely related to the
first, is the belief that the body is valuable for what it offers. For here is
the attraction of guilt made manifest in the body, and SEEN in it.
</div> 

Now we’ve already covered this in the last meeting. But to summarize it: The
body is your means of presenting force to your willfulness. It is the means by
which you exercise power to make change or to coerce people, whether it’s
through fist fights, whether it’s through a caress, whether it’s through a loud
voice, whether it’s through a physical demeanor that expresses commitment and
therefore apparent strength and so on. You use the body as the means of
exerting force literally, to make change. And in this state of independence
governed by fear and guilt, you have developed a theory—a set of concepts—that
suggest that to whatever degree you are able to bring forth into play, whether
for good or for ill, it increases your independent existence and will
ultimately bring you, like Pinocchio, to a point of becoming a real boy on your
own, which we’ve discussed before, as well.

And so, put simply, the body is the second thing used as an obstacle to peace.
Why would you abandon that which promises you reality without being connected
to your Source and brings into play capacities of thought and reason and logic
that will cause you to succeed in this task—capacities God gave you and set you
free to utilize—so you could make something out of yourself? That’s the theory
that has arisen out of independence and the resulting fear and guilt. It’s the
obstacle to peace.

Why is peace important? Because in the silence of your Being when your
independent chatter of the mind and the willfulness with which you use your
mind for purposes other than peace, if you had disengaged from that, you are
afraid that will succumb to all of the worst—everything will collapse, there
will be no order.

But that’s because in the realm of fear and guilt, you can’t remember that
order and peace were the first law of Being. Peace was in the Beginning.
Peace, because God hasn’t changed, is still in the Now, in the Present. Peace
has gone nowhere and what you divinely Are hasn’t changed one bit.

Recognizing the obstacles to peace and abandoning them, puts you at the
threshold of remembering who you divinely Are. It puts you at the threshold of
hearing the Holy Spirit remind you gently but firmly, and encouragingly, and
lovingly of what it is your Birthright to be consciously experiencing instead
of fear and guilt and everything you have associated with it.

The end of the obstacles to peace comes in the holy instant. It comes in the
two-step, where you shut up, and in the genuine humble Silence that is present,
you reach out beyond any of your best thinking and you say, “Father, Holy
Spirit, what is the truth here? What is the experience that it is my
Birthright to be having, which I lost the experience of when I decided to try
to be independent and cherish the independence?” And then stay in the Silence.
Continue to bring your attention to the threshold of Awakening—the threshold by
which you abandon your independence.

Now, most of this I have said before. In the Silence, when you are genuinely,
trustingly, humbly and even sometimes humiliatedly listening because you are
feeling incapable and not objecting to it, Revelation occurs—inspiration
infills you—the Holy Spirit, your right Mind responds and registers with you.
The Christ can reach you. The Father can reach you. Your Guides can reach you
and they do. And there is a shift of perception that occurs.

Peace is fleshed out with the experience of why it’s incontrovertible,
unchangeable, eternal, and why it’s an excellent description of the omnipotence
of your Being—the invulnerability of your Being. That  means that authority
never has to be brought into play for self-defense. And this changes your
perception about your brothers and sisters and about your world.

Now, continuing into the fourth paragraph of this section: It says &hellip;

<div class="well book">
Peace is extended from you only to the eternal, and it reaches out from the
eternal in YOU.
</div> 

When you abandon the independence where mortality, not eternality is the rule,
when you step out of it, you experience the eternal that has always been
present, active and inseparable from you because it’s your nature instigated by
the Father’s act of Self-expression.

So, when you move in to the holy instant, when you allow peace by devaluing all
of your best skilled independent thinking and listen, and hear, you move out of
that realm of mortality. You experience your eternality, and I will tell you
something, whatever you experience about the Truth of you, you simultaneously
recognize as being the Truth about your fellowman and it’s so simple then to be
able to appreciate and honor your fellowman in that place. And so &hellip;

<div class="well book">
Peace is extended from you only to the eternal, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; meaning, to all that really exists, all of Creation including your
brothers &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; and it reaches out from the eternal in YOU.
</div> 

Do you see? It means that your willingness to abandon the obstacle to peace
that values your body for the power it can bring into play in order to secure
your safety, make you important, and also cause you to become a “real boy”
independent of your Source, when you abandon that, your experience of your
brothers and sisters is that they have been released from it as well *in your conscious awareness of them*. The eternal in you extends to the eternal in them
that you are recognizing and experiencing, and blesses them.

Again:

<div class="well book">
Peace is extended from you only to the eternal, and it reaches out from the
eternal in YOU. It flows across all else. The second obstacle &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the valuing of the body and not wanting to let go of the good it brings
to you.

<div class="well book">
The second obstacle is no more solid than the first. For you will neither to
get rid of peace NOR limit it. What are these obstacles which you would
interpose between peace and its going forth but barriers you place between your
will and its accomplishment?
</div>

This is important. You place barriers between your will and the accomplishment
of your will. But this is not speaking here of your human will, or I will put
it this way, your divine will perceived through the lens of fear and guilt
which cause it to seem quite separated from That which placed It in you and
continues to express It in you as you at this moment.

<div class="well book">
You WANT communion, not the feast of fear.
</div> 

That’s your will.

<div class="well book">
You WANT salvation, not the pain of guilt.
</div> 

You do not want to be experiencing either of the two sides of the coin—fear or
guilt. But as long as you choose for fear and guilt and the wonderful
challenge of overcoming them all by yourself, you keep fear and guilt alive and
block your willingness to let your true will be accomplished.

<div class="well book">
And you want your Father, NOT a little mound of clay, to be your home.

[note: Raj skipped reading rest of paragraph]
</div> 

Now:

<div class="well book">
You have paid very dearly for your illusions, and nothing you have paid
for brought you peace. Are you not GLAD &hellip;
</div>

&hellip; GLAD &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; that Heaven cannot be sacrificed, and sacrifice cannot be asked of you?
</div> 

It’s impossible for the omnipotence of God to be overthrown by a puny little
willful act of imagination. It’s impossible. And no matter what you’ve
thought you’ve done, you haven’t done it! And whatever you think because of
your fear and guilt, that you will be punished for, you never did. Therefore,
punishment is not awaiting you, but like the Prodigal Son, embrace and the
abundance, the infiniteness of the Father is bestowed upon you. Not because
you didn’t have it and the Father finally brings it to you, but because you’re
not blocking what was never taken away from you, except that which you chose to
ignore in the excitement and fun of trying to be something you cannot be and
overcoming the dissonance of fear and guilt that accompanied it.

This has to be becoming clearer and clearer.

You know what? Every moment is the threshold of illusion or Truth. At every
moment, you, the holy Son or Daughter of God is confronted by the Kingdom of
Heaven and nothing else! If you choose to view it from a state of independence
where fear and guilt color everything you’re seeing, you seem to have lost your
holiness. In fact, it’s hard to believe that you really are holy. But your
holiness has not deteriorated nor declined in the least through all of this
imagination.

<div class="well book">
&hellip; Heaven cannot be sacrificed, and sacrifice cannot be asked of you? There
IS no obstacle which you can place before our union, for in your holy
relationship I am there already.
</div> 

That means: in your holy relationship with your brothers and sisters or the
trees or the lady bugs or the scorpions or the grass, I am there already with
you. The Holy Spirit—that which is nothing more than your infinite capacity to
experience everything without distortion—is there already.

<div class="well book">
We will surmount all obstacles together, for we stand within the gates, and not
outside.
</div> 

What does that mean? It means you and we stand within the Presence of Mind in
which the conscious experience of everything is going on, and in which the
meaning and substantiality and validity of everything is waiting your
acknowledgement and your recognition that God—the Infinite Mind—is expressing
those ideas perfectly, eternally.

<div class="well book">
How easily the gates are opened from within, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; meaning, from the presence of mind that you are &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; to let peace through to bless the tired world!
</div> 

Meaning, to cause the transformation of the Kingdom of Heaven that you were
seeing as a troubled world, back into what it truly is, the Kingdom of Heaven—a
healed world, Creation with no more distortions blinding you to Its glory and
your glory—because it’s your role to be co-creator in the Movement of Creation.

<div class="well book">
Can it be difficult for us to walk past barriers together, when you have joined
the limitless?
</div> 

And I’m going to add, *“instead of the finite.”* You’re not alone. You’re
accompanied by your very own divinity, the Holy Spirit. You’re accompanied by
me. You’re not accompanied by the Father. You are initiated by the Father now
&hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now &hellip; now. The eternal idea that you are is
constantly infused with the brand new expression of the energy of God and you
miss this when you choose to operate within the realm of fear and guilt, and
make commitment to being there and staying there.

<div class="well book">
The end of guilt &hellip;
</div> 

Listen to this:

<div class="well book">
The end of guilt is in your hands to &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what? Not take hold of. Not to create, but to give.

<div class="well book">
The end of guilt is in your hands to give.
</div> 

That means engaging in forgiveness. That means looking at the Kingdom of
Heaven and withdrawing your misperception, your highly valued misperception
which gives you a feeling of importance that you’re unwilling to let go of
because you need to know that there is something valid about you, but you can’t
see it when you’re looking through the lens of fear and guilt.

<div class="well book">
The end of guilt is in your hands to give. Would you stop now to look for guilt
in each other?
</div>

Would you?

<div class="well book">
Would you stop now to look for guilt in each other?
</div> 

You *must*, no matter what justifications you think you have. Those
justifications are pure imagination colored by guilt and fear, which stops you
in your tracks from coming Home, from yielding to the Father, from letting your
right Mind back in to be the totality of you.

Now that’s where we ended up when we were last reading from the *Obstacles to Peace*. Continuing …

<div class="well book">
Let me be to you the symbol of the END of guilt, and look upon each other as
you would look on me.
</div> 

In other words, look upon each other as the symbol of the end of guilt. Your
brothers and sisters are holy Sons and Daughters of God. They are guiltless,
no matter what the definition you are applying to them, no matter what the
definition they are applying to themselves, when both of you are insisting upon
looking at everything through the lens of fear and guilt.

<div class="well book">
Forgive me all the sins you think the Son of God &hellip;
</div> 

Meaning your brothers, your sisters &hellip;

<div class="well book">
 &hellip; committed.
 
Forgive me all the sins you think [they] committed. And in the light of your
forgiveness, he &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your brother or your sister &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; will remember who he is, and forget what never was.
</div> 

You don’t believe that. You have too much experience behind you to say that
having faith in your brother doesn’t always work, “and with this one it never
has worked!” And you believe yourself. You don’t realize that this has
nothing to do with your brother, but it has entirely to do with an idea in your
own mind which has been put through the sieve of fear and guilt and is causing
you to misapprehend your brother and sister. And as long as you are committed
to that, you will not find your brother or sister remembering who he is, but
rather reacting to your lousy perception which you are holding him to and
attempting to convince him of, by means of your lousy unloving behavior.

<div class="well book">
I ask for your forgiveness, for if you are guilty, so must I be.
</div> 

A simple sentence absolutely true: Life changing.

<div class="well book">
I ask for your forgiveness, for if you are guilty, so must I be. But if
I surmounted guilt and overcame the world, YOU were with me. Would you see in
me the symbol of guilt, or of the END of guilt, remembering that what I signify
to you you see within YOURSELF?
</div> 

You look at me through the lens of fear and guilt and it is hard for you to
trust me. It is hard for you to let me in. It is easier for you to say that
someone else has the talent to do it, and you don’t. That is the way you block
me from registering with you and uncovering, revealing your divinity to you as
an experience. You block me by relying upon your pitiful assessment of your
capacity, or of me.

<div class="well book">
From your holy relationship truth proclaims the truth, and love looks on
itself. Salvation flows from deep within the home you offered to my Father and
to me.
</div> 

What home? Your heart, your soul, the quiet place in you, the altar in the
center of you, when you practice the two-step or the holy instant and you
silence your independence and you say, “Father, Holy Spirit, Jesus, what is the
truth here?” you’ve made a home for us, the obstacle to us, you have abandoned.

<div class="well book">
Salvation flows from deep within the home you offered to my Father and to me.
</div> 

When? A moment ago, ten moments ago, three hours ago when you were in the
grocery store, five hours ago when you picked up a MacDonald’s hamburger. You
see? Every moment is a moment in which to practice the holy instant, *to bring your curiosity*, your attention with desire to experience the more of what God
is being right there than what you’re used to seeing because of the definitions
you’ve been using and valuing. You see?

<div class="well book">
Salvation flows from deep within the home you offered to my Father and to me.
And we are there together, in the quiet communion in which the Father and the
Son are joined.
</div> 

This is the way it works. And it needs to become apparent that the obstacles
to peace are silly imaginations that truly don’t require your servitude, your
allegiance, your commitment to.

<div class="well book">
Oh come ye faithful to the holy union of the Father and Son in you!
</div> 

The holy Son of God, the holy Daughter of God that you Are right now and have
forever been.

<div class="well book">
And keep you not apart from what is offered you, in gratitude for giving peace
its home in Heaven.
</div> 

You see, when the obstacles to peace are released, change occurs,
transformation of your mind occurs as you become Sane, divinely Sane once
again. And you’re in a new place with new gifts to make. Spontaneous gifts
that end up being made the moment you recognize something new that you see is
incontrovertible and from which you cannot withhold your devotion to any
longer—your acknowledgement of.

<div class="well book">
Send forth to all the world the joyous message of the end of guilt, and &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?

<div class="well book">
&hellip; all the world will answer.
</div> 

Not true, you say. “Just look at the mess everything’s in and it’s getting
worse and it’s getting scarier. It’s becoming more undependable. The rules of
war are no longer being abided by. And random acts of hatred that can’t be
predicted because there aren’t any rules of bad behavior that everybody has
agreed to follow. And this makes it really scary. And this makes it seem as
though evil is really real.” You see?

Wait a minute &hellip; you can’t afford to switch your attention to a world out
there and not realize that when you do that you slip back into your best or
worst definitions of everything, which you have commitment to, and that you
have forgotten that you do not have to look at everything through the lens of
fear and guilt, which are not your Birthright and which will vanish the moment
you withdraw your attention from your definitions about everything “out there”
and in the absence of them, in the gentle holy silence in the middle of you,
you say, “Holy Spirit, what is the divine truth here?” You see?

As it has been said, “You can never solve a problem from the level of the
problem.” You can never solve the effects of fear and guilt from the realm of
fear and guilt. And so you have to bring your attention to another place. And
that’s the whole point of the holy instant.

Where is the threshold to Awakening? You could say it’s right in the center
of you. But I’m going to be more specific: The threshold of Awakening is in
the Now.

Right now, if you abandon your thinking, you will be aware of where you Are.
You will be aware of the circumstances &hellip; the trees, the roads, the homes,
the furnishings, the people you’re with. When you are not preoccupied with
your best thinking, which takes you to the past or the future, and you silence
it, in the silence your attention will be in the Now. The threshold to
Awakening is in the Now. It isn’t out there in anyone else’s behavior.

The transformation of the world begins with your withdrawal from your great
valuing of your independent self, and the gathering together of power that you
utilize through the use of your body as a means of securing your reality as
something you could never be. When you abandon that, the way you see the world
will change. When the way you see the world changes, when the way you see your
brothers and sisters is a true approximation of what they divinely Are, there
will come from you a grateful joyous recognition, an acknowledgement of it.
And this will transform.

It’s not better rules of war and it’s not the forceful coercive manipulation of
those who don’t want to follow the rules but want to do that which is evil.
You see?

<div class="well book">
Think of your happiness as everyone offers you witness of the end of sin, &hellip;
</div> 

Think of your happiness—think of the happiness you will experience&hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; as everyone offers you witness of the end of sin, and shows you that its
power is gone forever.
</div> 

“Oh, I know, [chuckling] that’s really far-fetched isn’t it? You’re going to
tell me that the members of ISIS are going to witness to the ends of sin
because I have chosen to humble myself and abandon a different level of
willfulness than they’re bringing into play. Really? You expect me to believe
that?”

Yes, it’s the truth. You will see everything falsely as long as you maintain
an independent willful commitment to seeing things the way you have decided to
define them or the way everyone else has decided that you should define them.
It’s that simple and the release is that simple.

<div class="well book">
Where can guilt be, when the belief in sin is gone?
</div> 

“I know, they’re not going to release their belief in sin!” Well, there you go
again—you jumped the rails! You abandoned the relinquishment of your very own
divorce from the Father by insisting upon not engaging in the holy instant,
because what good will it do. It’s the only way Home, because you never left
Home and you never became a sinner among sinners, and the way you’re seeing
everyone right now is not dependable, because you’re not seeing them joined
with the Holy Spirit, or me or the Father and therefore you are Pinocchio still
trying to get your own independence.

And here’s the big one:

<div class="well book">
And where is death, when its great advocate is heard no more?
</div> 

Fear and guilt and a willful expression of them, are the advocates not only for
death but for sin, disease and death. But where is death, where is sin, where
is disease when their great advocate is heard no more? Heard from where? Your
own preoccupation with your tininess and your vulnerability and your innate
capacity that you believe you have to secure your invulnerability as an
unhooked puppet. But you can never become unjoined with that Life force, that
Mind Intelligence that is forming you and forming you, now &hellip; now &hellip; now
&hellip; now in absolute unchanging perfection.

<div class="well book">
Forgive me your illusions, and release me from punishment for what I have not
done.
</div> 

In other words, stop blocking me. Stop putting up obstacles that keep you from
hearing me. Stop blocking the Holy Spirit. Stop putting up the obstacles of
personal self-willfulness.

<div class="well book">
Forgive [us] your illusions, and release [us] from punishment for what [we]
have not done.
</div> 

And really what it means is: release yourself from your own imaginations which
are incapable of disclosing to you your fulfillment, your divinity, and the
Kingdom of Heaven that is constantly being distorted by the presence of fear
and guilt, which will not disappear until you abandon them and join with us.

<div class="well book">
Forgive me your illusions, and release me from punishment for what I have not
done. So will you learn the freedom that I taught by teaching freedom to each
other, and so releasing me.
</div> 

Paul is releasing me right now. He is not withholding me. He’s not saying,
“At this time it’s more important for me to be distressed by what my fear and
guilt is confronting me with.”

<div class="well book">
I am within your holy relationship, &hellip;
</div> 

Your holy relationship. Paul’s holy relationship with you, your holy
relationship with Paul.

<div class="well book">
I am within your holy relationship, yet you would imprison me behind the
obstacles you raise to freedom, and bar my way to you. Yet it is not possible
to keep away One Who is there already.
</div> 

The Holy Spirit is with you already. It is You already in your infinite
wholeness. I am with you already. The Father is with you already.

<div class="well book">
And in Him it IS possible that our communion, where we are joined already, will
be &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?

<div class="well book">
&hellip; the focus of the new perception that will bring light to all the world,
contained in YOU.
</div> 

You are the Presence of the Father in Expression. You are the Presence of the
Father in Expression. As with the Father, all there is for you to experience
is the Movement of divine Mind. And all there is for you to do with It, is to
recognize It and acknowledge It as the Presence of God Being all there is to
everything, including you. And therefore, the clear undistorted experience of
Reality lies in you like a bright light that you will recognize the brightness
of when you will open your eyes up and stop providing an obstruction to the
experience of it.

Now let’s remember what are the obstacles to? Peace. What was in the
beginning? Peace. What is to become clear again? Peace. Because in Peace is
where God’s laws reign supreme, where omnipotence, omnipresence and all that
Reality truly is, is experienced.

I’m going to read this last sentence again, so it’s fresh in your mind:

<div class="well book">
And in Him it IS possible that our communion, where we are joined already, will
be the focus of the new perception that will bring light to all the world,
contained in YOU.
</div>

You holy Son of God, you holy Daughter of God whom I love dearly, eternally.
I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Chapter 19 – Section: BEYOND THE BODY\
  Sparkly Book p465, 3RD Full Par. \
  JCIM p194, Next to last Par. \
  CIMS p392, Par. 65 \
  Chapter 19 Section: THE ATTAINMENT OF PEACE \
  First Edition p385, 2nd Full Par.\
  Second Edition p413, Par. 6

