---
title: Jun 7, 2015
ref: T19.8 Obstacles to Peace; The Attraction of Death (*)
---

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

We are considering the Obstacles to Peace and have been, in quite some detail,
for a few weeks now.  Currently, we are considering the third obstacle which
is, The Attraction of Death.

Before we continue, I want to point out that there is one element which arouses
the obstacles to peace—which brings the obstacles to peace into play—and that
element is independence &hellip; independence.

Independence from what?

Well, always it’s independence from relationship. You see? Independence is
always the breaking of a relationship—the violation of a relationship.

You, as the Sons and Daughters of God, have a Function.  And that Function is
to recognize the Movement of the infinite Mind of God, and recognize It and
acknowledge It for what It is:  The Movement of God—the Movement of the divine
Mind that God is.  Your confirmation of the Movement of God as God’s, secures
infinity and eternity as a singularity—as That which is indivisible and
undivided even though It is an infinite expression.

In your recognition of that infinite expression, you are in intimate
relationship with it all.  You see that?

Before any act of independence occurred, before any Son or Daughter of God
said, “Father, I’d rather define things for myself,” there was no, I will say,
objectivity, where you were separate from what you were experiencing and
recognizing as the infinite expression of God.

As a result, the singularity of Mind was an experience of infinite ever-present
omnipresent relationship with all of Creation.  That is not only your
Birthright to be experiencing, it is what is utterly natural and normal for you
when you’re not insisting upon being some sort of an independent agent—being
creative all by yourself.

So, overcoming the Obstacles of Peace is never a matter of managing somehow to
independently escape the obstacles and to then independently be free of them.
The eradication of the Obstacles to Peace is the reestablishment of the
inviolable, unchangeable intimate relationship that you and every one of the
Sons and Daughters of God enjoy as, for lack of better words, your natural
habitat, your natural way of Being.

Overcoming the Obstacles to Peace is the uninhibited and unavoided experience
of intimacy—of unity—of active conscious Brotherhood.

We need to keep this in mind because Atonement—the coming back into your right
Mind—is never an independent act, action, or activity.  It is always going to
be relative to a Brother or a Sister, or some part of Creation in which you
become innocently present with Creation, or that aspect of it.

The removal of the Obstacles to Peace is the reestablishment of union, of
Brotherhood.  And all of the Obstacles to Peace have as their goal, the
breakdown of union because it is predicated on an act—by a Son or Daughter of
God—of separation from his Father.  From God.

So everything that we’ve been talking about needs to be considered in relation
to your relationships with each other—those immediately in your experience as
well as mankind as a whole.  It won’t just be the Obstacles to Peace in your
head.  It won’t be the escape from the Obstacles to Peace in your immediate
relationships, but in the Brotherhood of Man, the result of which will be *Peace on Earth, Good Will Toward Men.*[^1]

This is important to understand, because it will ground you.  It will also will
cause you to look at, we’ll say, the Attraction to Death in a more grounded
way, in a more practical way, in a less esoteric way, because you will be able
to look at it relative to the use to which you’re putting your mind.  Because
you are always using your mind to create the Obstacles to Peace and to, we’re
going to say, activate it, objectify it, manifest it.

Now, going into the book we see:

<div class="well book">
Death, were it true, would be the final and complete disruption of
communication which is the ego's goal.[^2]
</div> 

Now, it isn’t that the ego is an entity in itself, that has a goal of
disrupting communication.  It is that you as a Son or Daughter of God,
initially disrupted communication with your Father by deciding to act
independently of the Father.  And that disruption of the unity of Mind between
the Father and the Son became manifest as a disturbed mind.  The communication
was disturbed and the result was a disturbed mind that then had to communicate
with the Brotherhood through language, ideas and coercion.

Communication became something between two things.  Whereas communion is the
oneness of One infinite Thing.  You see the difference?  It’s important.

Now I want you to think about it.  When you are in conflict, when you are
angry, jealous, when you are depressed &hellip; when you are any of these things,
they’re never something private—just about you.  They always have their root in
a relationship you’re in, and, at the bottom line, a call in that relationship
for communion.  In other words, a call for those in the relationship to abandon
their personal, private willfulness—to learn of the Father, to learn of their
Source what the truth is, so that a unified understanding occurs.  That’s
communion.  That is what is normal.  That is what is holy.  That is “the goal.”

When you get into arguments with each other, when you get down and dirty with
each other, always the technique employs doing whatever it takes to avoid
communication, to avoid looking squarely at the need and changing, when change
is called for.

This is important.

I shared with Paul this past week, this idea:  What you see with your ego, you
have to convince me of.  I did not mean when I was saying it to him that what
he saw with his ego, he had to convince me of.  I was speaking with relevance
to relationships.  And one could say this to his Brother, or one’s Brother
could say this to you: “What you see with your ego, you have to convince me
of.”

Now this is because communication, not being communion, is something that is
projected from one thing to another.  Unfortunately, the ego is a state of
independence from the Father in which fear and guilt are the bottom line
elements.  And so every single bit of communication, where what one sees with
his ego he has to convince the other of, is disruptive, distorting and
destructive.  What you see with your ego you have to convince me of.

But I continued &hellip; What you see with the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit
convinces me of.  That’s because it’s communion.

Every one of you at this point who are hearing my voice are functioning in the
ego’s realm.  And what the Course is bringing to your attention and
illuminating to you is the necessity of practicing the holy instant in which
you become still.  You stop listening to and talking with your ego.  And in the
Silence, you ask of the Holy Spirit, “What is the truth here?” so that the Holy
Spirit can respond.  And what you see with the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit
convinces your Brother of—the one whom you were having a grievance with.  And
there is no level of coercion that occurs.

The practice of the holy instant is the way you move out of and become free of
the Obstacles to Peace.

Continuing:

<div class="well book">
Those who fear death see not how often and how loudly they call to it, and bid
it come to save them from communication.
</div>

Every argument you get in, every disagreement you have with another and every
bit of the wrangling that goes on, is the avoidance of communication.
Technically, it’s the avoidance of communion.  It’s the avoidance of being of
One Mind.

Well, how often are you in disagreement?  How much of your day is spent being
distressed—whether it’s a little bit or a lot—with another one’s perspective,
or what another one is attempting to do? And how many of you enjoy the practice
of judgment that you engage in, without realizing that the practice of
judgment, for lack of better words, affects you physically, negatively.  It
raises blood pressure.  It disrupts digestion.  It disrupts your heart rate.
It unsettles you.  Anger, carried to its extreme, can give you a heart attack.

What I’m pointing out here is, that the practice of grievance, the practice of
fear and hate is a devotion to death.  And of course, if death occurs, then the
conflict is over and the disagreement and the stubbornness of your Brother or
Sister doesn’t have to be dealt with anymore.

But of course, you’re not thinking about that.  Why?  Because when you
experience fear and anger, it brings you in touch with a need—you think—to be
in touch with your strength.  And so in a way, fear magnifies the opportunity
for you to express your strength, and therefore, is self-confirming.  And that
is pleasing.  And that is why it is difficult to abandon the practice of fear
and hate.  If you do, it seems that you’re abandoning the opportunity for your
strength to be confirmed.

Now &hellip;

<div class="well book">
For death is seen as safety, the great dark saviour from the light of truth,
the answer to the Answer, the silencer of the Voice that speaks for God.
</div> 

Yes, it does.  No one wants to really look directly at the issues that need to
be looked at, because the ego suggests that looking at what the Answer to those
things is, will be your guilt calling for penalty.  And so to hear the Father’s
Answer becomes frightening instead of relieving, instead of something that you
would run for and leap into your Father’s Arms to be supported and held and
safe.

<div class="well book">
Yet the retreat to death is not the end of conflict.
</div> 

In other words, the practice of avoiding unity, the practice of avoiding
hearing the Holy Spirit answer you and resolve things, does not end conflict.
To get away from that which will penalize you will not end the conflict because
you have been deceptively invited to stay in the place which is itself,
conflicted.

<div class="well book">
Only GOD'S answer is its end.
</div> 

The end of conflict.

<div class="well book">
The obstacle of your seeming love for death that peace must flow across seems
to be very great.
</div>

Now that doesn’t necessarily mean in terms of size, like a huge gap to leap
across. It can seem to be very great because the fear is experienced as
a sensation in your gut.  It is a sensation which spontaneously calls for
self-preservation—something in your best interest, you think.

And so, the degree of the sensation of fear succeeds in distracting you further
and further away from whatever little willingness you might have to turn to the
Holy Spirit or the Father and pray—ask for help, ask to know what is the
healing truth here?  You see?

<div class="well book">
The obstacle of your seeming love for death that peace must flow across seems
to be very great. For in it lies hidden all the ego's secrets, all its strange
devices for deception, all its sick ideas and weird imaginings.
</div> 

Tonight I’m *wanting* you to take a look at what goes on in your mind when you
are distressed, because you will find, when you pay attention right when you’re
in the middle of this, that the physical sensations of fear, the apparent call
for self-preservation which seems to be in your best interest, those things all
arise out of many different little deceits that you believe.

“Oh, the Father will condemn me.”  “Oh, if I do that I will be controlled by
anyone who wants to control me.”  “I will lose my invulnerability that I will
be able to have through the use of my own personal power and strength.”

And it goes on and on and on, and all of these deceptive little lies keep you
from having the nerve or the faith or the daring to reach outside of it to the
Holy Spirit, or to the Father, or to me and genuinely ask for help without
being afraid of the Answer.

So these words are very meaningful:

<div class="well book">
For in it lies hidden all the ego's secrets, all its strange devices for
deception, all its sick ideas and weird imaginings.
</div> 

These are things that go on in your own mind as justifications to be distracted
from your holiness and from the peace that is in you and is ever present for
you to avail yourself of, and something that once you have availed yourself of
it, will be the environment in which the sudden shift of perception that’s
called, “a miracle,” can happen and will happen.

<div class="well book">
Here is the final end of union, the triumph of the ego's making over creation,
the victory of lifelessness on Life Itself.
</div>

Emotion and distorted ideas cause you to commit yourself to abandoning God,
abandoning any gumption you might have to stand up and speak to God, “Father,
what is the truth here?” “Father, help me.” “Holy Spirit, reveal to me what
I need to know.”

Why? Part of the deception in the weird imaginings is the idea that, “Well, if
God really were my helper, who I’ve called upon a lot, then I wouldn’t be in
this bad shape that I’m in. And therefore, asking God for help doesn’t work.
Asking the Holy Spirit to know the truth doesn’t mean that I will become
infused with a Knowing of what the truth is that uncovers to me, as an
experience, my invulnerability and allows me to let out a sigh and let go of
whatever strength I was going to use to preserve myself, because I Know I’m not
under threat.”

<div class="well book">
Under the dusty edge of its distorted world the ego would lay &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; who?

<div class="well book">
&hellip; the Son of God, slain by its orders, proof in his decay that God Himself
is powerless before the ego's might, unable to protect the life that He created
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; that God created &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; against the ego's savage wish to kill.
</div> 

All of this goes on daily, and it goes on as an activity of your mind that you
need to be willing to dare to look at and contradict &hellip; you need to be
willing to look at it and contradict it and step away from it on purpose.

Continuing:

<div class="well book">
My brothers, Children of our Father, this is a DREAM of death.
</div> 

The whole thing is a charade, if I might put it that way.  The whole thing is
imagination—pure imagination—and you don’t need to be governed by imagination
any more.  The point here is to overcome or abandon the obstacle to peace,
because the obstacle to peace is an illusion and can be abandoned.  And
therefore, you must dare to go ahead and do it in spite of your conditioning,
in spite of your strong belief to the contrary.

<div class="well book">
There is no funeral, no dark altars, no grim commandments nor twisted rituals
of condemnation to which the body leads you.
</div> 

[Chuckling]  “Oh, yes, but all bodies deteriorate and die.  All bodies do lead
to a funeral.”  No!  That’s the belief.  That’s the practiced committed belief.
But you are learning here that it is to be contradicted, and that it can be
contradicted, and you can step out of it into the conscious experience of
eternal life NOW, not after you die.

<div class="well book">
Ask not release of IT.
</div> 

Meaning, don’t ask for release from your body!  Don’t ask your body to let you
go and not have to die.

<div class="well book">
But free it from the merciless and unrelenting orders YOU laid upon it, and
forgive it what YOU ordered it to do.
</div> 

Your commitment to the idea that your body will finally put you in the grave,
or cause you to pass on while it goes into a grave &hellip; your commitment to
that is what needs to be abandoned.

You’re ordering your body to do that, by virtue of confidence in this false
idea—which you didn’t know was false—but which you now, at least, have heard
from me, it’s false, and which it is now up to you to pick up and dare to act
upon.  And how do you act upon it?  By trying to make the body eternal?  No!
You act upon it by abandoning the fear and the guilt.  And you abandon the fear
and the guilt by reaching outside of your best judgments and your best
thinking, and asking, leaning into, the infinite Mind of God and the Holy
Spirit to have the truth revealed to you.

<div class="well book">
In its exaltation &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the body’s—by giving it powers in your imaginative way to control you
&hellip;

<div class="well book">
In its exaltation you commanded it to die, for only death COULD conquer life.
And what but insanity could look upon the defeat of God, and think it real?
</div> 

Well, you may not have thought of it that way.  But when you are exalting the
body—that which you define as something which is born, grows, grows old and
dies—you are honoring and lifting up with respect that which has as its
ultimate conclusion, death.  And it’s time to withdraw your honor from it.
That is what this is all about.

<div class="well book">
And what but insanity could look upon the defeat of God, and think it real?
</div> 

Well, here comes one of those little, oh-o-o, secrets of the ego, the strange
devices and deception that comes along and says, “Well, you see, I told you.
If you look to find out what the truth is, you’ll find that the truth is that
you are behaving insanely.”  You see, it twisted things.  It said, “You are
behaving insanely,” instead of that these ideas are insane, are not true, are
not practical, are not to be honored because they will lead you to nothing but
confusion.

<div class="well book">
The fear of death will go as its appeal is yielded to love's REAL attraction.
</div> 

Now mind you, I want to back up here.  The attraction of the ego is found in
the emotions and the physical sensations of fear and strengths.  So the fear of
death will go as its appeal—as the sensations and the beliefs—are yielded to
love’s REAL attraction.

<div class="well book">
The end of sin, which nestles &hellip;
</div> 

Listen to this:

<div class="well book">
The end of sin, which nestles quietly in the safety of your relationship, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what relationship?  The relationship with your fellowman that is
disrupted by the act of independence.

<div class="well book">
The end of sin, which nestles quietly in the safety of your relationship, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the relationship that would be disrupted by independence, has within it
the end of sin and it nestles there quietly.

<div class="well book">
&hellip; protected by your union, ready to grow into a mighty force for God, &hellip;
</div> 

I’m going to read the whole sentence over again:

<div class="well book">
The end of sin, which nestles quietly in the safety of your relationship,
protected by your union, ready to grow into a mighty force for God, is very
near.
</div> 

You see, once you know that this obstacle for peace is not real and that it can
be moved past, that causes the relief to be very near.

<div class="well book">
The infancy of salvation is carefully guarded by love, preserved from every
thought that would attack it, and quietly made ready to fulfill the mighty task
for which it was given you.
</div> 

What is that mighty task?  To be the full-fledged Son or Daughter of God that
you Are and have never stopped being &hellip; without the impediment and the pain
and the sorrow and the sickness and the sin and the death that accompanies this
distorted perception called “independence.”

<div class="well book">
Your newborn purpose &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; newborn in the relationship that you are turning over to the Holy Spirit.

<div class="well book">
Your newborn purpose is nursed by angels, cherished by the Holy Spirit, and
protected by God Himself.
</div> 

This is what meets you as you abandon the obstacle for peace, the attraction of
death.  You see?

<div class="well book">
It needs not your protection; IT is YOURS.
</div> 

It is your protection.  But you will not feel its presence until you’ve
abandoned the wild strength of your willfulness in your attempt to be
a successful independent agent.

<div class="well book">
It needs not your protection; IT is YOURS. For it is deathless, and within it
lies the end of death.
</div> 

You see?  That’s the only thing that will end the conflict, not succeeding in
overcoming God.

<div class="well book">
What danger can assail the wholly innocent? What can attack the guiltless? What
fear can enter and disturb the peace of sinlessness? What has been given you,
even in its infancy, is in full communication with God and you.
</div> 

The infancy of Salvation is in full communication with God and you.

<div class="well book">
In its tiny hands it holds, in perfect safety, every miracle you will perform,
held out to you.
</div> 

This is what you are unaware of when you are consumed with emotion and physical
sensations that arise out of fear and guilt.  This is the replacement.

<div class="well book">
The miracle of life is ageless, born in time but nourished in eternity.
</div> 

And I would say, born and dying in time, but nourished in eternity.  Because
time is a perception that is false and in it birth and death occur.  But Life
is ageless, nourished in eternity.  You see?  Changelessly fulfilled in
eternity.

<div class="well book">
Behold this infant, &hellip;
</div> 

And I’m going to say, dare to behold this infant right in the middle of your
being consumed with fear or anger or jealousy or any other manipulative selfish
movement.

<div class="well book">
Behold this infant, to whom you gave a resting-place by your forgiveness of
each other, and see in it the Will of God.
</div> 

There we go &hellip; that’s your part in co-creation, is to see the Movement of
God and acknowledge It as His.

<div class="well book">
Here is the babe of Bethlehem reborn.
</div> 

In you, as you.

<div class="well book">
And everyone who gives him shelter will follow him, not to the cross, but to
the Resurrection and the Life.
</div> 

And that’s the point!  Atonement,  Awakening,  coming back into your right Mind
and Knowing it.

<div class="well book">
When anything seems to you to be a source of fear, when any situation strikes
you with terror and makes your body tremble and the cold sweat of fear comes
over it, remember it is always for ONE reason; the ego has perceived it as
a symbol of fear, a sign of sin and death.
</div> 

I’m going to go back:

<div class="well book">
When anything seems to you to be a source of fear, .
</div> 

It’s not because it is, but it’s because &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; the ego has perceived it as a symbol of fear, a sign of sin and death.
</div> 

That’s very important.

Waking up is a matter of abandoning the ego’s interpretations by abandoning the
ego, which means, again, becoming still, silencing the human thinking and
expressing the prayer, “Father,” or “Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?  What
is the redeeming, regenerative, redemptive truth here?”

<div class="well book">
Remember, then, that neither [the] sign nor symbol .
</div> 

In other words, whatever definition the ego is overlaying on what is happening
&hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; should be confused with source, &hellip;

Remember, then, that neither sign nor symbol should be confused with source,
for they must stand for something OTHER than themselves. Their meaning cannot
lie in them, but must be sought in what they REPRESENT.
</div> 

Well, they represent the ego, whose goal is to disrupt communication, disrupt
union.

<div class="well book">
And they may thus mean everything or nothing, according to the truth or falsity
of the idea which they reflect. Confronted with such seeming uncertainty of
meaning, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; meaning when you find yourself confused and frightened and don’t know
where to turn &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; judge it not.
</div> 

Don’t get tangled in it.

<div class="well book">
Remember the holy presence of the One given to you to be the Source of
judgment.
</div> 

Well, who might that be?  The Holy Spirit, of course.  Remember, see, right in
the middle of your great distress of your great emotion, of your great physical
sensations of fear and power, right in the middle of that which would grab your
attention and say nothing else is worth giving your attention to, right in the
middle of that:

<div class="well book">
Remember the holy presence of the One given to you to be the Source of
judgment.
</div> 

The Holy Spirit.

<div class="well book">
Give it to Him to judge for you, and say:
</div> 

And you tell me whether this isn’t the description of the holy instant:

<div class="well book">
Give it to Him to judge for you, and say:

"Take this from me and look upon it, judging it for me. Let me not see it as
a sign of sin and death, nor use it for destruction. Teach me how NOT to make
of it an obstacle to peace, But let You use it FOR me, to facilitate its
coming."
</div> 

This is the way you undo the obstacles to peace and specifically The Attraction
of Death.

I love you very much.  I want you to grasp the Meaning of this.  And as I said
when we began, I want you to remember that the abandoning of the Obstacles to
Peace is what reestablishes union in the Brotherhood.  It’s a Brotherhood
thing, not an individual thing.

It’s your Brother or your Sister:  It’s your daughter, or your wife, or your
husband or son who you are to be willing to relate to without the judgment that
arises out of fear and guilt, but instead in the peace of the joining with the
Holy Spirit that allows Revelation to occur that changes your mind.

I look forward to being with you next time.

[^1]: Luke 2:14

[^2]: Chapter 19 – Section:  THE ATTRACTION OF DEATH \
      Sparkly Book p470 2nd Full Par., last Sen. \
      JCIM p196, 5th line from bottom \
      CIMS p396, Par. 83 last Sen. \
      First Edition p389, 4th Par. Last Sen. \
      Second Edition p418. Par. 6, line 5

