---
chapter: Eleven
ctitle: God’s Plan for Salvation
title: The Vision of Christ
ref: T11.6
---

The ego is trying to teach you how to gain the whole world and lose
your own Soul. The Holy Spirit teaches that you CANNOT lose your Soul and
there IS no gain in the world, for OF ITSELF it profits nothing. To
invest in something without profit is surely to impoverish yourself, and
the overhead is high. Not only is there no profit in the investment, but
the cost to YOU is enormous. For this investment costs you the world’s
reality by denying YOURS, and gives you nothing in return. You CANNOT
sell your Soul, but you CAN sell your AWARENESS of it. You cannot
perceive your Soul, but you will not KNOW it while you perceive anything
ELSE as more valuable.

The Holy Spirit is your strength because He perceives nothing BUT your
Soul as you. He is perfectly aware that you do NOT know yourselves, and
perfectly aware of how to teach you what you are. BECAUSE He loves you,
He will gladly teach you what He loves, for He wills to share it.
Remembering you always, He cannot let you forget your worth. For the
Father never ceases to remind Him of His Son, and He never ceases to
remind His Son of the Father. God is in your memory BECAUSE of Him. You
chose to forget your Father but you did not WILL to do so, and therefore
you can decide otherwise. As it was MY decision, so is it YOURS.

You do not WANT the world. The only thing of value in it is whatever
part of it you look upon with love. This gives it the only reality it
will ever have. Its value is NOT in itself, but yours IS in you. As
self-value comes from self-EXTENSION, so does the PERCEPTION of
self-value come from the projection of loving thoughts outward. Make the
world real unto YOURSELF, for the real world is the gift of the Holy
Spirit, and so it BELONGS to you.

Correction is for all who cannot see. To open the eyes of the blind is
the Holy Spirit’s mission, for He knows that they have not lost their
vision, but merely sleep. He would awaken them from the sleep of
forgetting to the remembering of God. Christ’s eyes are open, and He
will look upon whatever you see with love if you accept His vision as
yours.

The Holy Spirit keeps the vision of Christ for every Son of God who
sleeps. In His sight the Son of God is perfect, and He longs to share
His vision with you. He will show you the real world because God gave
you Heaven. Through Him your Father calls His Son to remember. The
awakening of His Son begins with his investment in
the REAL world, and by this he will learn to re-invest in HIMSELF. For
reality is one with the Father AND the Son, and the Holy Spirit blesses
the real world in Their Name.

When you have seen this real world, as you will surely do, you WILL
remember us. Yet you must learn the cost of sleeping, and REFUSE to pay
it. Only then will you decide to awaken. And then the real world will
spring to your sight, for Christ has never slept. He is waiting to be
seen, for He has never lost sight of YOU. He looks quietly on the real
world, which He would share with you because He knows of the Father’s
Love for Him. And knowing this, He would give you what is yours. In
perfect peace He waits for you at His Father’s altar, holding out the
Father’s Love to you in the quiet light of the Holy Spirit’s blessing.
For the Holy Spirit will lead everyone home to his Father, where Christ
waits as his Self.

Every Child of God is one in Christ, for his Being is in Christ as
Christ’s is in God. Christ’s love for you is His love for His Father,
which He knows because He knows His Father’s Love for Him. When the Holy
Spirit has at last led you to Christ at the altar to His Father,
perception fuses into knowledge because perception has become so holy
that its transfer to holiness is merely its natural extension. Love
transfers to love without any interference, for the situations are
identical. As you perceive more and more common elements in ALL
situations, the transfer of your training under the Holy Spirit’s
guidance increases and becomes generalized. Gradually you learn to apply
it to everyone and everything, for its applicability IS universal. When
this has been accomplished, perception and knowledge have become so
similar that they share the unification of the laws of God.

What is one cannot be perceived as separate, and the denial of the
separation IS the re-instatement of knowledge. At the altar of God, the
holy perception of God’s Son becomes so enlightened that light streams
into it, and the Spirit of God’s Son shines in the Mind of the Father
and becomes One with It. Very gently does God shine upon Himself, loving
the extension of Himself which is His Son. The world has no purpose as it
blends into the Purpose of God. For the real world has slipped quietly
into Heaven, where everything eternal in it has always been. There the
Redeemer and the redeemed join in perfect love of God and of each other.
Heaven is your home, and
being in God it must ALSO be in you.

