---
chapter: Eleven
ctitle: God’s Plan for Salvation
title: The Guide for Miracles
ref: T11.7
---

Miracles demonstrate that learning has occurred under the right
guidance, for learning is invisible, and what has been learned can be
recognized only by its RESULTS. Its generalization is demonstrated as
you use it in more and more situations. You will recognize that you have
learned there is no order of difficulty in miracles when you have
applied them to ALL situations. There IS no situation to which miracles
do not apply, and by applying them to all situations you will gain the
real world. For in this holy perception you will be made whole, and the
Atonement will radiate from YOUR acceptance of it for YOURSELF to
everyone the Holy Spirit sends you for your blessing. In every Child of
God His blessing lies, and in YOUR blessing of the Children of God is
His blessing to YOU.

Everyone in the world must play his part in the redemption of the world,
to recognize that the world HAS BEEN redeemed. You cannot see the
invisible. Yet if you see its effects you KNOW it must be there. By
perceiving what it DOES, you recognize its being. And by WHAT it does,
you learn what it IS. You cannot SEE your abilities, but you gain
confidence in their existence as they enable you to ACT. And the RESULTS
of your actions you CAN see.

The Holy Spirit is invisible, but you can see the RESULTS of His
Presence, and through them you will learn that He is there. What He
enables you to do is clearly NOT of this world, for miracles violate
every law of reality as this world judges it. Every law of time and
space, of magnitude and mass, of prediction and control is transcended,
for what the Holy Spirit enables you to do is clearly beyond ALL of
them. Perceiving His results, you will understand WHERE He must be, and
finally KNOW what He is.

You cannot see the Holy Spirit, but you can see His manifestations. And
unless you do, you will not realize He is there. Miracles are His
witnesses, and speak for his Presence. What you cannot see becomes real
to you only through the witnesses who speak for it. For you can be AWARE
of what you cannot see, and it can become compellingly real to you as
its presence becomes manifest THROUGH you. Do the Holy Spirit’s work,
for you
SHARE in His function. As your function in Heaven is creation, so your
function on earth is healing. God shares His function with you in
Heaven, and the Holy Spirit shares His with you on earth.

As long as you believe you have two functions, so long will you need
correction. For this belief is the DESTRUCTION of peace, a goal in
direct opposition to the Holy Spirit’s purpose. You see what you EXPECT,
and you expect what you INVITE. Your perception is the result of your
invitation, coming to you as you sent for it. Whose manifestations would
you see? Of whose presence would you be convinced? For you will believe
in what you MANIFEST, and as you look out so will you see in. Two ways
of looking at the world are in your mind, and your perception will
reflect the guidance you chose.

I am the manifestation of the Holy Spirit, and when you see me it will
be because you have invited Him. For He WILL send you His witnesses if
you will but look upon them. Remember always that you see what you seek,
for what you seek you WILL find. The ego finds what IT seeks, and ONLY
that. It does not find love, for that is NOT what it is seeking. Yet
seeking and finding are the same, and if you seek for two goals you will
find them, but you will RECOGNIZE NEITHER. For you will think they are
the same because you WANT them both. The mind always strives for
integration, and if it is split and wants to KEEP the split, it will
believe it has one goal by MAKING it one.

We said before that WHAT you project is up to you, but it is NOT up to
you WHETHER to project, for projection is a law of mind. Perception IS
projection, and you look in BEFORE you look out. As you look in you
choose the guide for seeing, and THEN you look out and behold his
witnesses. This is WHY you find what you seek. What you want in YOURSELF
you will make manifest by projection, and you will accept it FROM the
world because you put it there BY wanting it.

When you think you are projecting what you do NOT want, it is still
because you DO want it. This leads directly to dissociation, for it
represents the acceptance of two goals, each perceived in a DIFFERENT
place, separated from each other BECAUSE you made them different. The
mind then sees a divided world OUTSIDE itself, but not WITHIN. This
gives it an illusion of integrity, and enables it
to believe that it is pursuing one goal. As long as you perceive the
world as split, YOU are not healed. For to be healed is to pursue one
goal because you have ACCEPTED only one, and WANT but one.

When you want ONLY love you will see nothing else. The contradictory
nature of the witnesses you perceive is merely the reflection of your
conflicting invitations. You have looked upon your minds and accepted
opposition there, having SOUGHT it there. But do not then believe that
the witnesses for opposition are true, for they attest only to YOUR
decision about reality, returning to you the message you GAVE them. Love
is recognized by its messengers. If you make love manifest, its
messengers will come to you because you INVITED them.

The power of decision is your one remaining freedom as a prisoner of
this world. YOU CAN DECIDE TO SEE IT RIGHT. What YOU made of it is NOT
its reality, for its reality is only what you GAVE it. You cannot really
give anything but love to anyone or anything, nor can you really RECEIVE
anything else from them. If you think you have received anything else,
it is because you have looked within and thought you saw the power to
give something else WITHIN YOURSELF. It was only this decision that
determined what you found, for it was the decision of what you SOUGHT.

You are afraid of me because you looked within and are afraid of what
you saw. Yet you could not have seen reality, for the reality of your
mind is the loveliest of God’s creations. Coming only from God, its
power and grandeur could only bring you peace IF YOU REALLY LOOKED UPON
IT. If you are afraid, it is because you saw something THAT IS NOT
THERE. Yet in that same place you could have looked upon me and all your
brothers, in the perfect safety of the Mind Which created us. For we are
there in the peace of the Father, who wills to project His peace through
YOU.

When you have accepted your mission to PROJECT peace you will FIND it,
for by MAKING IT MANIFEST you will SEE it. Its holy witnesses will
surround you because you CALLED upon them and they will come to you. I
have heard your call and I have answered it, but you will not look upon
me nor HEAR the answer which you sought. That is because you do not yet
want ONLY that. Yet as I become more real to you, you will learn that
you DO want only that.

And you will see me as you look within, and we will look upon the world
as God created it together. Through the eyes of Christ ONLY the real
world exists and can BE seen. As you decide so will you see. And all
that you see but witnesses to your decision.

When you look within and see me, it will be because you have decided to
manifest truth. And as you manifest it you will see it both without AND
within, for you will see it without BECAUSE you saw it first within.
Everything you behold without is a judgement of what you beheld within.
If it is YOUR judgement it will be wrong, for judgement is not your
function. If it is the judgement of the Holy Spirit it will be right,
for judgement IS His function. You share His function only by judging as
HE does, reserving no judgement at all unto yourselves. For you will
judge AGAINST yourselves, but HE will judge FOR you.

Remember, then, that whenever you look without and react unfavorably to
what you see, you have judged yourself unworthy and have condemned
yourself to death. The death penalty is the ego’s ultimate goal, for it
fully believes that you are a criminal, as deserving of death as God
knows you are deserving of life. The death penalty never leaves the
ego’s mind, for that is what it always reserves for you in the
end. Wanting to kill you as the final expression of its feeling for you,
it lets you live but to await death. It will torment you while you live,
but its hatred is not satisfied until you die. For your destruction is
the one end toward which it works, and the only end with which it will
be satisfied.

The ego is not a traitor to God to Whom treachery is impossible, but it
IS a traitor to you who believe YOU have been treacherous to your
Father. That is why the UNDOING of guilt is an essential part of the Holy
Spirit’s teaching. For as long as you feel guilty you are listening to
the voice of the ego, which tells you that you HAVE been treacherous to
God and therefore DESERVE death. You will think that death comes from
God and NOT from the ego because, by confusing yourself WITH the ego,
you believe that YOU want death. And from what you want God does NOT
save you.

When you are tempted to yield to the desire for death REMEMBER THAT I
DID NOT DIE. You will realize that this is true when you look within and
SEE me. Would I have overcome death
for myself alone? And would eternal life have been given me of the
Father UNLESS he had also given it to you? When you learn to make ME
manifest YOU will never see death. For you will have looked upon the
deathless in YOURSELF, and you will see only the eternal as you look out
upon a world that CANNOT die.

