---
chapter: Eleven
ctitle: God’s Plan for Salvation
title: Reality and Redemption
ref: T11.8
---

Do you REALLY believe that you can kill the Son of God? The Father has
hidden His Son safely within Himself and kept him far away from your
destructive thoughts, but YOU know neither the Father nor the Son
because of them. You attack the real world every day and every hour and
every minute, and yet you are surprised that you cannot see it. If you
seek love in order to attack it you will NEVER find it. For if love is
sharing, how can you find it except through ITSELF? Offer it and it will
come to you because it is drawn to itself. But offer attack and it will
remain hidden, for it can live only in peace.

God’s Son is as safe as his Father, for the Son knows his Father’s
protection and CANNOT fear. His Father’s Love holds him in perfect
peace, and needing nothing, he ASKS for nothing. Yet he is far from you
whose Self he is, for you chose to attack him, and he disappeared from
your sight into his Father. HE did not change, but YOU did. For a split
mind and all its works were not created by the Father, and could not
live in the knowledge of Him.

When you made what is NOT true visible, what IS true became
invisible. Yet it cannot be invisible in ITSELF, for the Holy Spirit sees
it with perfect clarity. It is invisible to you because you are looking
at something ELSE. Yet it is no more up to you to decide what is visible
and what is invisible than it is up to you to decide what reality is.
What can be seen is what the HOLY SPIRIT sees. The definition of reality
is God’s, not yours. HE created it, and HE knows what it is. You who
knew have forgotten, and unless He had given you a way to remember you
would have condemned yourselves to oblivion.

Because of your Father’s Love you can NEVER forget Him, for no-one can
forget what God Himself placed in his memory. You can DENY it, but you
cannot LOSE it. A Voice will answer every question you ask, and a Vision
will correct the perception of everything you see. For what you have
made invisible is the ONLY truth, and what
you have not heard is the ONLY answer. God would reunite you with
yourself, and did not abandon you in your seeming distress. You are
waiting only for Him and do not know it. Yet His memory shines in your
minds and cannot BE obliterated. It is no more past than future, being
forever always.

You have but to ask for this memory and you WILL remember. Yet the
memory of God cannot shine in a mind which has MADE it invisible and
wants to KEEP it so. For the memory of God can dawn only in a mind that
wills to remember, and that has relinquished the insane desire to
control reality. You who cannot even control yourselves should hardly
aspire to control the universe. But look upon what you have made of it,
and rejoice that it is not so. Son of God, be not content with nothing!
What is not real cannot BE seen and HAS no value. God could not offer
His Son what has no value, nor could His Son receive it. You were
redeemed the instant you thought you had deserted Him.

Everything you made has never been, and is invisible because the Holy
Spirit does not see it. Yet what He DOES see is yours to behold, and
through His vision your perception is healed. You have made the
invisible the only truth that this world holds. Valuing nothing, you
have sought nothing and FOUND nothing. By making nothing REAL to you,
you have SEEN it. BUT IT IS NOT THERE. And Christ is invisible to you
because of what you have made visible to YOURSELVES. Yet it does not
matter how much distance you have tried to interpose between your
awareness and truth. God’s Son CAN be seen because his vision is shared.
The Holy Spirit looks upon him, and sees nothing else in YOU. What is
invisible to you is perfect in His sight, and encompasses ALL of it. He
has remembered you because He forgot not the Father.

You looked upon the unreal and found despair. Yet by seeking the unreal,
what else COULD you find? The unreal world IS a thing of despair, for it
can never be. And you who share God’s Being with Him could never be
content without reality. What God did not give you has no power over
you, and the attraction of love for love remains irresistible. For it is
the function of love to unite all things unto itself, and to hold all
things together by extending its wholeness.

The real world was given you by God in loving exchange for
the world YOU made and which YOU see. But take it from the hand of
Christ and look upon it. Its reality will make everything else
invisible, for beholding it is TOTAL perception. And as you look upon
it, you will remember that it was always so. Nothingness will become
invisible, for you will at last have seen truly. Redeemed perception is
easily translated into knowledge, for ONLY perception is capable of
error, and perception has never been. Being corrected it gives place to
knowledge, which is forever the ONLY reality. The Atonement is but the
way back to what was never lost. Your Father could not cease to love His
Son.

