---
chapter: Eleven
ctitle: God’s Plan for Salvation
title: The Mechanism of Miracles
ref: T11.2
---

Fear is a symptom of your deep sense of loss. If when you perceive it in
others you learn to SUPPLY the loss, the basic CAUSE of fear is removed.
Thereby you teach yourself that fear does not exist IN YOU, for you have
IN YOURSELF the means for removing it, and have demonstrated this by
GIVING it. Fear and love are the only emotions of which you are capable.
One is false for it was made out of denial, and denial depends on the
real belief in what is denied for its OWN existence.

By interpreting fear correctly AS A POSITIVE AFFIRMATION OF THE
UNDERLYING BELIEF IT MASKS, you are undermining its perceived usefulness
by rendering it useless. Defenses which do not work at all are
AUTOMATICALLY discarded. If you raise what fear conceals to CLEAR-CUT,
UNEQUIVOCAL PREDOMINANCE, fear becomes meaningless. You have denied its
power to conceal love, which was its only purpose. The mask which YOU
have drawn across the face of love has disappeared.

If you would look upon love, which IS the world’s reality, how could you
do better than to recognize, in every defense AGAINST it, the underlying
appeal FOR it? And how could you better learn of its reality than by
answering the appeal for it by GIVING it? The Holy Spirit’s
interpretation of fear DOES dispel it, for the awareness of truth cannot
BE denied. Thus does the Holy Spirit replace fear with love and
translate error into truth. And thus will YOU learn of Him how to
replace your dream of separation with the fact of unity. For the
separation is only the DENIAL of union, and correctly interpreted,
attests to your eternal knowledge that union is true.

Miracles are merely the translation of denial into truth. If to love
oneself is to HEAL oneself, those who are sick do NOT love themselves.
Therefore, they are asking for the love that would heal them, but which
they are denying to themselves. If they knew the truth about themselves
they could not BE sick. The task of the miracle-worker thus becomes TO
DENY THE DENIAL OF TRUTH. The sick must heal THEMSELVES, for the truth
is in them. Yet, having OBSCURED it, the light in ANOTHER mind must
shine into theirs because that light IS theirs.

The light in them shines as brightly REGARDLESS of the density of the
fog that obscures it. If YOU give no power to the fog to obscure the
light it HAS none, for it has power only because the Son of God gave
power to it. He must HIMSELF withdraw that power, remembering that ALL
power is of God. YOU CAN REMEMBER THIS FOR ALL THE SONSHIP. Do not allow
your brother not to remember, for his forgetfulness is YOURS. But YOUR
remembering is HIS, for God cannot be remembered alone. THIS IS WHAT YOU
HAVE FORGOTTEN. To perceive the healing of your brother as the healing
of yourself is thus the way to remember God. For you forgot your
brothers WITH Him, and God’s answer to your forgetting is but the way to
remember.

Perceive in sickness but another call for love, and offer your brother
what he believes he cannot offer himself. Whatever the sickness, there
is but ONE remedy. You will be made whole as you MAKE whole, for to
perceive in sickness the appeal for health is to recognize in hatred the
call for love. And to give a brother what he REALLY wants is to offer it
unto yourself, for your Father wills you to know your brother AS
yourself. Answer HIS call for love and YOURS is answered. Healing is the
love of Christ for His Father and for HIMSELF.

Remember what we said about the frightening perceptions of little
children, which terrify them because they do not understand them. If
they ask for enlightenment and ACCEPT it their fears vanish, but if they
HIDE their nightmares they will KEEP them. It is easy to help an
uncertain child, for he recognizes that he does not know what his
perceptions mean. Yet you believe that you DO know. Little children, you
are hiding your heads under the covers of the heavy blankets you have
laid upon yourselves. You are hiding your
nightmares in the darkness of your own certainty, and refusing to open
your eyes AND LOOK AT THEM.

Let us not save nightmares, for they are not fitting offerings for
Christ, and so they are not fit gifts for YOU. Take off the covers and
look at what you are afraid of. Only the ANTICIPATION will frighten you,
for the reality of nothingness cannot BE frightening. Let us not delay
this, for your dream of hatred will not leave you without help, and help
is here. Learn to be quiet in the midst of turmoil, for quietness is the
end of strife and this is the journey to peace. Look straight at every
image that rises to delay you, for the goal is inevitable because it is
eternal. The goal of love is but your right, and it belongs to you
DESPITE your preference.

YOU STILL WANT WHAT GOD WILLS, and no nightmare can defeat a Child of
God in his purpose. For your purpose was given you by God, and you must
accomplish it BECAUSE it is His Will. Awake and remember your purpose,
for it is YOUR will to do so. What has been accomplished for you MUST be
yours. Do not let your hatred stand in the way of love, for NOTHING can
withstand the love of Christ for His Father, or His Father’s Love for
Him.

A little while and you WILL see me, for I am not hidden because YOU are
hiding. I will awaken you as surely as I awakened myself, for I awoke
FOR you. In MY resurrection is YOUR release. Our mission is to escape
CRUCIFIXION, not redemption. Trust in my help for I did not walk alone,
and I will walk with you as our Father walked with me. Did you not know
that I walked with Him in peace? And does not that mean that peace goes
with US on the journey?

There is no fear in perfect love. We will but be making perfect to you
what is ALREADY perfect IN you. You do not fear the UNKNOWN but the
KNOWN. You will not fail in your mission because I failed not in mine.
Give me but a little trust in the name of the COMPLETE trust I have in
you, and we will easily accomplish the goal of perfection together. For
perfection IS, and cannot BE denied. To deny the denial of perfection is
not so difficult as the denial of truth, and what we can accomplish
together MUST be believed when you SEE it as accomplished.

You who have tried to banish love have not succeeded, but you who choose
to banish fear WILL succeed. The Lord is with you, but
you know it not. Yet your Redeemer liveth, and abideth in you in the
peace out of which He was created. Would you not exchange THIS awareness
for the awareness of your fear? When we have overcome fear, not by
hiding it, not by minimizing it, not by denying its full import in any
way, this IS what you will really see. You cannot lay aside the obstacle
to real vision without looking upon it, for to lay aside means to judge
AGAINST. If YOU will look the Holy Spirit will judge, and will judge
truly. He cannot shine away what YOU keep hidden, for you have not
offered it to Him, and He cannot take it FROM you.

We are therefore embarking on an organized, well-structured and
carefully planned program aimed at learning how to offer to the Holy
Spirit everything you do NOT want. HE knows what to do with it. You do
NOT know how to use what He knows. Whatever is revealed to Him that is
not of God is gone. Yet you must reveal it to YOURSELF in perfect
willingness, for otherwise His knowledge remains useless to you. Surely
He will not fail to help you, since help is His ONLY purpose. Do you not
have greater reason for fearing the world as YOU perceive it than for
looking at the cause of fear, and letting it go forever?

