---
chapter: Twenty Nine
ctitle: The Awakening
title: The Closing of the Gap
ref: T29.1
---

The gap between you is not one of space between two separate bodies. This
but seems to be dividing off your separate minds. It is the symbol of a
promise made to meet when you prefer, and separate until you both elect
to meet again. And then your bodies seem to get in touch, and signify a
meeting-place to join. But always is it possible to go your separate
ways. Conditional upon the “right” to separate will you agree to meet
from time to time, and keep apart in intervals of separation, which
protect you from the “sacrifice” of love. The body SAVES you, for it
gets away from total sacrifice, and gives you time in which to build
again your separate selves, which you believe diminish as you meet.

The body COULD not separate your minds unless you wanted it to be a
cause of separation and of distance seen between you. Thus do you endow
it with a power that lies not within itself. And herein lies its power
over YOU. For now you think that it determines when you meet, and limits
your ability to make communion with each other’s mind. And now it tells
you where to go and how to go there, what is feasible for you to
undertake, and what you cannot do. It dictates what its health can
tolerate, and what will tire it and make it sick. And its “inherent”
weaknesses set up the limitations on what you would do, and keep your
purpose limited and weak.

The body WILL accommodate to this, if you would have it so. It will
allow but limited indulgences in “love”, with intervals of hatred in
between. And it will take command of when to “love” and when to shrink
more safely into fear. It will be sick because you do not know what
loving means. And so you MUST misuse each circumstance and everyone you
meet, and see in them a purpose not your own.

It is not love that asks a sacrifice. But fear DEMANDS the sacrifice of
love, for in love’s presence fear cannot abide. For hate to be
maintained love MUST be feared, and only sometimes present; sometimes
gone. Thus is love seen as treacherous, because it seems to come and go
uncertainly, and offer no stability to you. You do not see how limited
and weak is your allegiance, and how frequently you have demanded that
love go away, and leave you quietly alone, in “peace.”

The body, innocent of any goal, is your excuse for variable goals YOU
hold, and force the body to maintain. You do not fear its weakness, but
its lack of strength OR weakness. Would you recognize that nothing stands
between you? Would you know there IS no gap behind which you can hide?
There is a shock that comes to those who learn their Savior is their
enemy no more. There is a wariness that is aroused by learning that the
body is not real. And there are overtones of seeming fear around the
happy message “God is love.”

Yet all that happens when the gap is gone is peace eternal. Nothing more
than that, and nothing less. Without the fear of God, what could induce
you to abandon Him? What toys or trinkets in the gap could serve to hold
you back an instant from His love? Would you allow the body to say “no”
to Heaven’s calling, were you not afraid to find a loss of self in
finding God? Yet CAN your Self be lost by being found?

