---
chapter: Twenty Nine
ctitle: The Awakening
title: The Changeless Dwelling-Place
ref: T29.5
---

There is a place in you where this whole world has been forgotten; where
no memory of sin and of illusion linger still. There is a place in you
which time has left, and echoes of eternity are heard. There is a
resting place so still no sound except a hymn to Heaven rises up to
gladden God the Father and the Son. Where both abide are They
remembered, both. And where They are is Heaven and is peace. Think not
that you can change Their dwelling-place. For your Identity abides in
Them, and where They are, forever must YOU be.

The changelessness of Heaven is in you, so deep within that nothing in
this world but passes by, unnoticed and unseen. The still infinity of
endless peace surrounds you gently in its soft embrace, so strong and
quiet, tranquil in the might of its Creator, nothing can intrude upon
the sacred Son of God within. Here is the role the Holy Spirit gives to
you who wait upon the Son of God, and would behold him waken and be
glad. He is a part of you, and you of him, because he is his Father’s
Son, and not for any purpose you may see in him. Nothing is asked of you
but to accept the changeless and eternal that abide in him, for your
Identity is there. The peace in you can but be found in him. And every
thought of love you offer him but brings you nearer to your wakening to
peace eternal and to endless joy.

This sacred Son of God is like yourself; the mirror of his Father’s love
for you, the soft reminder of his Father’s love by which he was created,
and which still abides in him, as it abides in you. Be very still,
and hear God’s Voice in him, and let It tell you what his function is.
He was created that you might be whole, for only the complete can be a
part of God’s completion,Which created you.

There is no gift the Father asks of you but that you see in all creation
but the shining glory of His gift to you. Behold His Son, His perfect
gift, in whom his Father shines forever, and to whom is all creation
given as his own. Because he has it is it given you, and where it lies
in him behold your peace. The quiet that surrounds you dwells in him, and
from this quiet come the happy dreams in which your hands are joined in
innocence. These are not hands that grasp in dreams of pain. They hold
no sword, for they have left their hold on every vain illusion of the
world. And being empty, they received, instead, a brother’s hand in
which completion lay.

If you but knew the glorious goal that lies beyond forgiveness, you
would not keep hold on any thought, however light the touch of evil on
it may appear to be. For you would understand how great the cost of
holding anything God did not give in minds that can direct the hand to
bless, and lead God’s Son unto his Father’s house. Would you not WANT to
be a friend to him, created by his Father as His home? If God esteems
him worthy of Himself, would YOU attack him with the hands of hate? Who
would lay bloody hands on Heaven itself, and hope to find its peace?
Your brother thinks he holds the hand of death. Believe him not. But
learn, instead, how blessed are you who can release him, just by
offering him yours.

A dream is given you in which he is your Savior, not your enemy in hate.
A dream is given you in which you have forgiven him for all his dreams
of death; a dream of hope you share with him, instead of dreaming evil
separate dreams of hate. Why does it seem so hard to share this dream?
Because unless the Holy Spirit gives the dream its function, it was made
for hate, and will continue in death’s services. Each form it takes in
some way calls for death. And those who serve the lord of death have
come to worship in a separated world, each with his tiny spear and
rusted sword, to keep his ancient promises to die.

Such is the core of fear in every dream that has been kept apart from
use by Him Who sees a different function for a dream. When dreams are
shared, they lose the function of attack and separation,
even though it was for this that every dream was made. Yet nothing in the
world of dreams remains without the hope of change and betterment, for
here is not where changelessness is found. Let us be glad indeed that
this is so, and seek not the eternal in this world. Forgiving dreams are
means to step aside from dreaming of a world outside yourself. And
leading finally beyond all dreams, unto the peace of everlasting life.

