---
chapter: Seven
ctitle: The Consistency of the Kingdom
title: The Recognition of Truth
ref: T7.4
---

God’s meaning waits in the Kingdom because that is where He placed it.
It does not wait in time. It merely RESTS in the Kingdom because it
BELONGS there, as You do. How can you, who ARE God’s meaning, perceive
yourselves as absent FROM it? You can see yourselves as separated from
your meaning only BY EXPERIENCING YOURSELF AS UNREAL. This is why the
ego is insane; it teaches that you are NOT what you ARE. This is so
contradictory that it is clearly impossible. It is therefore a lesson
which you CANNOT REALLY LEARN, and therefore, CANNOT REALLY TEACH. Yet
you ARE always teaching. You MUST, therefore, be teaching something ELSE
as well, even though the ego DOES NOT KNOW WHAT IT IS.

The ego, then, IS always being undone, and DOES suspect your motives.
Your mind CANNOT be unified in allegiance to the ego, because the mind
does NOT belong to it. Yet what is “treacherous” to the ego IS faithful
to peace. The ego’s “enemy” is therefore YOUR friend. We said before
that the ego’s friend is not part of you, since the ego perceives itself
as at war, and therefore in need of allies. YOU, who are NOT at war,
must look for brothers and RECOGNIZE all whom you see AS brothers,
because ONLY equals are at peace.

Because God’s equal Sons have everything, they CANNOT compete. Yet if
they perceive ANY of their brothers as anything other than their perfect
equals, the idea of competition HAS entered their minds. Do not
underestimate your need to be vigilant AGAINST this
idea, because ALL your conflicts come from it. It is the belief that
conflicting interests are possible, and therefore you have accepted the
impossible as TRUE. How is that different from saying that you are
perceiving YOURSELF as unreal?

To be IN the Kingdom is merely to focus your full attention ON it. As
long as you believe that you can attend to what is NOT true, you are
accepting conflict as your CHOICE. Is it REALLY a choice? It SEEMS to
be, but seeming and reality are hardly the same. You who ARE the Kingdom
are not concerned with seeming. Reality is yours because you ARE
reality. This is how having and being are ultimately reconciled, not in
the Kingdom, but IN YOUR MINDS. The altar there is the ONLY reality. The
altar is perfectly clear in thought because it is a reflection of
PERFECT Thought. It sees only brothers because it sees ONLY in its own
Light.

God has lit your minds Himself, and keeps your minds lit by His Light
because His Light is what your minds ARE. This is TOTALLY beyond
question, and when you questioned it, you WERE answered. The answer
merely UNDOES the question by establishing the fact that to question
reality is to question meaninglessly. That is why the Holy Spirit NEVER
questions. His sole function is to UNDO the questionable, and thus lead
to CERTAINTY. The certain are perfectly calm because they are not in
doubt. They do not raise questions because nothing questionable ENTERS
their minds. This holds them in perfect serenity because this is what
they share, KNOWING what they are.

As has so often been said, healing is both an art and a science. It is
an art because it depends on inspiration in the sense that we have
already used the term. Inspiration is the opposite of dispiriting, and
therefore means to make joyous. The dispirited are depressed because they
believe that they are literally “without the Spirit,” which is an
illusion. You do not PUT the Spirit in them by inspiring them because
that would be magic, and therefore would not be real healing. You DO,
however, recognize the Spirit that is ALREADY there, and thereby
REAWAKEN it. This is why the healer is part of the resurrection and the
LIFE. The Spirit is not asleep in the minds of the sick, but the part of
the mind that can perceive it and be glad IS.

Healing is also a science because it obeys the laws of God,
Whose laws are true. BECAUSE they are true they are perfectly
dependable, and therefore universal in application. The REAL aim of
science is neither prediction nor control, but ONLY understanding. This
is because it does NOT establish the laws it seeks; CANNOT discover them
through prediction; and has NO control over them at all. Science is
nothing more than an approach to WHAT ALREADY IS. Like inspiration it
can be misunderstood as magic, and WILL be whenever it is undertaken as
SEPARATE from what already is, and perceived as a means for ESTABLISHING
it. To believe this is possible is to believe YOU CAN DO IT. This can only
be the voice of the ego.

Truth can only be RECOGNIZED, and NEED only be recognized. Inspiration
is of the Spirit, and certainty is of God according to His laws. Both,
therefore, come from the same Source, since inspiration comes from the
Voice FOR God and certainty comes from the laws OF God. Healing does not
come DIRECTLY from God,Who knows His creations as perfectly whole. Yet
healing is still OF God because it proceeds from His Voice and from His
laws. It is their result, in a state of mind which does NOT know Him.
The STATE is unknown to Him and therefore does not exist, but those who
sleep ARE STUPEFIED, or better, UNAWARE. BECAUSE they are unaware, they
do NOT know.

The Holy Spirit must work THROUGH you to teach you He is IN you. This is
an intermediary step toward the knowledge that you are in God because
you are part of Him. The miracles which the Holy Spirit inspires can
have no order of difficulty because every part of creation is of ONE
order. This is God’s WILL AND YOURS. The laws of God ESTABLISH this, and
the Holy Spirit reminds you OF it. When you heal, you are REMEMBERING
the laws of God and forgetting the laws of the ego. We said before that
forgetting is merely a way of remembering BETTER. It is therefore NOT
the opposite of remembering, when it is properly perceived. Perceived
IMPROPERLY, it induces a perception of CONFLICT with something ELSE, as
all incorrect perception does. PROPERLY perceived, it can be used as a
way OUT of conflict, as all proper perception can.

ALL abilities, then should be given over to the Holy Spirit
WHO KNOWS HOW TO USE THEM PROPERLY. He can use them
ONLY for healing because He knows you ONLY as whole. BY healing you
learn of wholeness, and by learning of wholeness you learn to remember
God. You HAVE forgotten Him, but the Holy Spirit still knows that your
forgetting must be translated into a way of REMEMBERING, and NOT
perceived as a separate ability which opposes an opposite. That is the
way in which the ego tries to use ALL abilities, since its goal is
always to make you believe that YOU are in opposition.

The ego’s goal is as unified as the Holy Spirit’s, and it is because of
this that their goals can NEVER be reconciled in ANY way or to ANY
extent. The ego ALWAYS seeks to divide and separate. The Holy Spirit
ALWAYS seeks to unify and heal. As you heal you ARE healed because the
Holy Spirit sees no order of healing. Healing is the way to UNDO the
belief in differences, being the ONLY way of perceiving the Sonship
without this belief. This perception is therefore IN accord with the
laws of God even in a state of mind which is OUT of accord with His. The
strength of right perception is so great that it brings the mind INTO
accord with His because it yields to His pull, which is in all of you.

To OPPOSE the pull or the Will of God is not an ability but a real
DELUSION. The ego believes that it HAS this ability, and can offer it to
you as a gift. YOU DO NOT WANT IT. It is NOT a gift. It is NOTHING AT
ALL. God has given you a gift which you both have and are. When you do
not use it, you do not know you HAVE it. By NOT knowing this, you do not
know what you are. Healing, then, is a way of APPROACHING knowledge by
thinking IN ACCORDANCE with the laws of God, and recognizing their
UNIVERSALITY. Without this recognition, you have made the laws
themselves meaningless to you. Yet the LAWS are not meaningless since
all meaning is contained BY them and IN them.

Seek ye FIRST the Kingdom of Heaven because that is where the laws of
God operate truly, and they can operate ONLY truly, since they are the
laws of Truth. But seek this ONLY because you can FIND nothing else.
There IS nothing else. God is all in all in a very literal sense. All
being is in Him Who IS all Being. YOU are therefore in Him since YOUR
being IS His. Healing is a way of forgetting the sense of danger the ego
has induced in YOU by NOT recognizing its
existence in your brothers. This strengthens the Holy Spirit in BOTH of
you because it is a REFUSAL to acknowledge fear. Love needs only this
invitation. It comes freely to ALL the Sonship, being what the Sonship
IS. By your awakening TO it, you are merely forgetting what you are NOT.
This enables you to remember what you ARE.

