---
chapter: Seven
ctitle: The Consistency of the Kingdom
title: Bargaining versus Healing
ref: T7.1
---

The ego demands reciprocal rights, because it is competitive rather than
loving. It is always willing to make a “deal,” but it cannot understand
that to be LIKE another means that NO deals are possible. To gain you
must give, not bargain. To bargain is to limit giving, and this is not
God’s Will. To will with God is to create like Him. God does not limit
His gifts in any way. YOU are His gifts, and so your gifts must be like
His. Your gifts TO the Kingdom must be like His Gifts to YOU.

I gave ONLY love to the Kingdom because I believed that was what I
WAS. What you believe you are DETERMINES your gifts, and if God created
you by extending Himself AS you, you can only extend YOURSELF as He did.
Only joy increases forever, since joy and eternity are inseparable. God
extends outward beyond limits and beyond time, and you, who are
co-creators with Him, extend His Kingdom forever and beyond limit.
Eternity is the indelible stamp of creation. The eternal are in peace
and joy forever.

To think like God is to share His CERTAINTY of what you are, and to
CREATE like Him is to share the perfect Love He shares with YOU. To this
the Holy Spirit leads you, that your joy may be complete because the
Kingdom of God is whole. We have said that the last step in the
re-awakening of knowledge is taken by God. This is true, but it is hard
to explain in words, because words are symbols, and nothing that is true
NEEDS to be explained. However, the Holy Spirit has the task of
translating the useLESS into the useFUL, the meaningLESS into the
meaningFUL, and the temporary into the timeless. He CAN, therefore, tell
you something about this last step,
although this one you must know yourself, since BY it you know what you
are. This IS your being.

God does not TAKE steps because His accomplishments are not gradual. He
does not teach because His creations are changeless. He does nothing
LAST because He created FIRST and FOR ALWAYS. It must be understood that
the word “first” as applied to Him is NOT a time concept. He is first in
the sense that He is the first in the Holy Trinity Itself. He is the
Prime Creator because He created His co-creators. BECAUSE He did, time
applies neither to Him NOR to what He created. The “last step” that God
will take was therefore true in the beginning, is true now, and will be
true forever.

What is timeless is ALWAYS there because its BEING is eternally
changeless. It does not change by increase because it was forever
created TO increase. If you perceive it as NOT increasing, you do not
know what it IS. You also do not know what created it, or Who HE is. God
does not REVEAL this to you because it was never hidden. His Light was
never obscured because it is His Will to SHARE it. How can what is fully
shared be withheld, and THEN revealed?

To heal is the only kind of thinking in this world that resembles the
Thought of God, and because of the elements which they share, can
transfer TO IT. When a brother perceives himself as sick, he is
perceiving himself as NOT WHOLE, and therefore IN NEED. If you, too, see
him this way, you are seeing him as if he were absent from the Kingdom
or separated from it, thus making the Kingdom itself obscure to BOTH of
you. Sickness and separation are not of God, but the Kingdom is. If you
obscure the Kingdom, you are perceiving what is NOT OF GOD.

