---
chapter: Seven
ctitle: The Consistency of the Kingdom
title: The Laws of Mind
ref: T7.2
---

To heal, then, is to correct perception in your brother AND yourself by
sharing the Holy Spirit with him. This places you BOTH within the
Kingdom, and restores its wholeness in your minds. This parallels
creation because it UNIFIES BY INCREASING and INTEGRATES BY EXTENDING.
What you project you believe. This is an immutable law of the mind in
this world as well as in the Kingdom. However, the content is different
in this world, because the thoughts it governs are very different from
the thoughts in the Kingdom. Laws
must be adapted to circumstances, if they are to maintain order.

The outstanding characteristic of the laws of mind as they operate in
this world is that by obeying them – and I assure you that you MUST obey
them - you can arrive at diametrically opposed results. This is because
the laws have adapted to the circumstances of this world, in which
diametrically opposed outcomes ARE believed in. The laws of mind govern
thoughts, and you DO respond to two conflicting voices. You have heard
many arguments on behalf of “the freedoms,” which would indeed have been
freedom if man had not chosen to FIGHT for them. That is why they
perceive “the freedoms” as many, instead of as one. Yet the argument that
underlies the defense of freedom is perfectly valid. Because it is true
it should not be FOUGHT for, but it SHOULD be sided WITH.

Those who are against freedom believe that its outcome will HURT them,
which CANNOT be true. But those who are FOR freedom, even if they are
misguided in how to defend it, are siding with the one thing in this
world which IS true. Whenever anyone can listen fairly to both sides of
ANY issue, he will make the right decision. This is because he HAS the
answer. Conflict can SEEM to be interpersonal, but it MUST be
intrapersonal first.

The term “intrapersonal” is an ego term, because “personal” implies “of
ONE person,” and NOT of others. “Interpersonal” has a similar error, in
that it refers to something that exists among different or SEPARATE
people. When we spoke before of the extremely PERSONAL nature of
revelation, we followed this statement immediately with a description of
the inevitable outcomes of the revelation in terms of SHARING. A person
conceives of himself as separate largely because he perceives OF himself
as bounded by a body. ONLY if he perceives himself as a MIND can this be
overcome. Then he is free to use terms like “intramental” and
“intermental” WITHOUT seeing them as different or conflicting because
minds CAN be in perfect accord.

OUTSIDE the Kingdom, the law which prevails INSIDE it is adapted to
“what you project you BELIEVE.” This is its TEACHING form, since outside
the Kingdom teaching is mandatory because LEARNING is essential. This
form of the law clearly implies that you will learn what YOU are from
what you have projected onto others,
and therefore believe THEY are. IN the Kingdom there is no teaching OR
learning because there is no BELIEF. There is only CERTAINTY. God and
His Sons, in the surety of being, KNOW that what you project you
ARE. That form of the law is not adapted at all, being the Law of
Creation. God Himself created the law by creating BY it. And His Sons,
who create like Him, follow it gladly, knowing that the increase of the
Kingdom depends on it, just as their own creation did.

Laws must be communicated if they are to be helpful. In effect, they
must be TRANSLATED for those who speak a different language.
Nevertheless, a good translator, although he must alter the FORM of what
he translates, NEVER changes the meaning. In fact, his whole purpose is
to change the form SO THAT the original meaning is retained. The Holy
Spirit is the TRANSLATOR of the Laws of God to those who do NOT
understand them. You could not do this yourselves because conflicted
minds CANNOT be faithful to one meaning, and will therefore CHANGE THE
MEANING TO PRESERVE THE FORM.

The Holy Spirit’s purpose in translating is naturally EXACTLY the
opposite. He translates only to PRESERVE the original meaning in ALL
respects and in ALL languages. Therefore, He opposes differences in form
as meaningful, emphasizing always that THESE DIFFERENCES DO NOT
MATTER. The meaning of His message is ALWAYS the same, and ONLY the
meaning matters. God’s Law of Creation in perfect form does not involve
the USE of truth to convince His Sons OF truth. The EXTENSION of truth,
which IS the Law of the Kingdom, rests only on the knowledge of what
truth IS. This is your inheritance and requires no learning at all, but
when you DISinherited yourselves, you BECAME learners.

No-one questions the intimate connection of learning and memory.
Learning is impossible WITHOUT memory since it cannot be consistent
UNLESS it is remembered. That is why the Holy Spirit IS a lesson in
remembering. We said before that He teaches remembering and forgetting,
but the forgetting aspect is only TO MAKE THE REMEMBERING CONSISTENT.
You forget in order to REMEMBER BETTER. You will NOT understand His
translations while you listen to two ways of perceiving them. Therefore,
you must forget, or relinquish, one to UNDERSTAND the other. This is the
only way you CAN learn consistency, so that you can finally BE
consistent.

What can the perfect consistency of the Kingdom mean to the confused? It
is apparent that confusion INTERFERES with meaning, and therefore
PREVENTS THE LEARNER FROM APPRECIATING it. There is NO confusion in the
Kingdom, because there is only ONE meaning. This meaning comes from God
and IS God. Because it is also YOU, you share it and EXTEND it as your
Creator did. This needs no translation because it is perfectly
understood, but it DOES need extension because it MEANS extension.
Communication is perfectly direct and perfectly united. It is totally
without strain because nothing discordant EVER enters. That is why it IS
the Kingdom of God. It belongs to Him, and is therefore LIKE Him. That
is its reality, and nothing CAN assail it.

