---
chapter: Seven
ctitle: The Consistency of the Kingdom
title: The Consistency of the Kingdom
ref: T7.0
---

The creative power of both God and His creations is limitless, but
they are not in reciprocal relationship. You DO communicate fully with
God, as He does with you. This is an ongoing process in which you share,
and BECAUSE you share it, you are inspired to create LIKE God. Yet in
creation you are not in reciprocal relation to God, since He created
YOU, but You did NOT create Him. We have already said that only in this
respect your creative power differs from His. Even in this world there
is a parallel. Parents give birth to children, but children do not give
birth to parents. They DO, however, give birth to THEIR children and
thus give birth AS their parents do.

If you created God and He created you, the Kingdom could not increase
through its own creative thought. Creation would therefore be limited,
and you would not be co-creators with God. As God’s creative Thought
proceeds from Him to you, so must your creative thought proceed from you
to YOUR creations. Only in this way can all creative power extend
outward. God’s accomplishments are not yours. But yours are LIKE His. HE
created the Sonship, and you INCREASE it. You have the power to ADD to
the Kingdom, but not to add to the CREATOR of the Kingdom. You claim
this power when you become vigilant only for God and His Kingdom. BY
ACCEPTING this power as yours, you have learned to be what you are.

Your creations belong in you, as you belong in God. You are part of God,
as your sons are part of His Sons. To create is to love. Love extends
outward simply because it cannot be contained. Being limitless, IT DOES
NOT STOP. It creates forever, but not in time. God’s creations have
always been, because HE has always been. YOUR creations have always
been, because you can create only as God creates. Eternity is yours
because He created you eternal.

