---
chapter: Seven
ctitle: The Consistency of the Kingdom
title: The Total Commitment
ref: T7.7
---

Whenever you deny a blessing to a brother YOU will feel deprived. This
is because denial is as total as love. It is as impossible to deny part
of the Sonship as it is to love it in part. Nor is it possible to love
it totally AT TIMES. You cannot be TOTALLY committed SOMETIMES. Remember
a very early lesson;– “Never underestimate the power of denial.” It has
no power in itself, but you can give it the power of YOUR mind, whose
power is without limit of any kind. If you use it to deny reality,
reality IS gone for you. REALITY CANNOT BE PARTLY APPRECIATED. That is
why denying any part of it means you have lost awareness of ALL of it.

That is the negative side of the law, as it operates in this world. Yet
denial is a defense, and so it is as capable of being used positively as
it is of being used destructively. Used negatively it WILL be
destructive because it will be used for attack, but in the service of
the Holy Spirit, the law requires you to recognize only PART of reality
to appreciate ALL of it. Mind is too powerful to be subject to
exclusion. You will NEVER be able to exclude yourself from what you
project.

When a brother acts insanely, he is offering you an opportunity to bless
him. His need is YOURS. You NEED the blessing you can offer him. There
is no way for you to have it EXCEPT by giving it. This is the law of
God, and it has NO exceptions. What you deny you LACK, not because it IS
lacking, but because you have denied it in another, and are therefore
not aware of it in YOU. Every response you make is determined by what
you THINK you are, and what you WANT to be IS what you think you
are. Therefore, what you want to
be determines every response you make.

You do not need God’s blessing, since that you have forever, but you DO
need YOURS. The picture you see of yourselves is deprived, unloving and
very vulnerable. You CANNOT love this. Yet you can very easily escape
from it, or better, leave it behind. You are not THERE, and that is not
YOU. Do not see this picture in anyone, or you have accepted it AS you.
ALL illusions about the Sonship are dispelled together, as they were
MADE together. Teach no-one that he is what YOU would NOT want to be.
Your brother is the mirror in which you will see the image of yourself,
as long as perception lasts. And perception WILL last until the Sonship
knows itself as whole.

You made perception, and it must last as long as you WANT it. Illusions
are investments. They will last as long as you value them. Values are
relative, but they are powerful because they are mental judgements. The
only way to dispel illusions is to withdraw ALL investment from them,
and they will have no life for you because you have put them OUT OF YOUR
MIND. While you include them IN it, you are GIVING life to them. Except
there is nothing there to receive your gift.

The gift of life IS yours to give, because it was given YOU. You are
unaware of your gift BECAUSE you do not give it. You cannot make nothing
live, since it cannot BE enlivened. Therefore, you are not extending the
gift you both have and are, and so you do not know your being. ALL
confusion comes from not extending life, since that is NOT the Will of
your Creator. You can do nothing apart from Him, and you DO do nothing
apart from Him. Keep His way to remember yourselves, and teach His way,
lest you forget yourselves. Give only honor to the Sons of the Living
God, and count yourselves among them gladly.

ONLY honor is a fitting gift for those whom God Himself created worthy
of honor, and whom He honors. Give them the appreciation which God
accords them always, because they are His beloved Sons in whom He is
well pleased. You cannot BE apart from them because you are not apart
from Him. Rest in His Love, and protect your rest by loving. But love
EVERYTHING He created, of which you are a part, or you cannot learn of
His peace, and accept His gift for YOURSELF and AS yourself. You cannot
know your own perfection until you have honored all those who were
created LIKE you.

One Child of God is the ONLY teacher sufficiently worthy to teach
another. One Teacher is in all your minds, and He teaches the same
lesson to all. He always teaches you the inestimable worth of EVERY Son
of God, teaching it with infinite patience born of the infinite Love for
which he speaks. Every attack is a call for His patience since ONLY His
patience can translate attack into blessing. Those who attack do not
KNOW they are blessed. They attack because they believe they are
DEPRIVED. Give, therefore, of YOUR abundance, and teach your brothers
THEIRS. Do not share their delusions of scarcity, or you will perceive
YOURSELF as lacking.

Attack could never promote attack unless you perceived it as a means of
depriving you of something you WANT. Yet you cannot LOSE anything unless
YOU did not value it, and therefore did not WANT it. This makes you feel
DEPRIVED of it, and by projecting your own rejection, you believe that
others are taking it FROM you. One MUST be fearful, if he believes that
his brother is attacking him to tear the Kingdom of Heaven from him.
This is the ultimate basis for ALL of the ego’s projection.

Being the part of your mind which does not believe it is responsible for
ITSELF, and being without allegiance to God, the ego is incapable of
trust. Projecting its insane belief that YOU have been treacherous to
YOUR Creator, it believes that your brothers, who are as incapable of
this as YOU are, are out to take God FROM you. Whenever a brother
attacks another, this IS what he believes. Projection ALWAYS sees your
will in others. If you will to separate yourself from God, that IS what
you will think others are doing TO you.

You ARE the Will of God. Do not accept anything else AS your will, or
you are denying what you are. Deny this and you WILL attack, believing
you have BEEN attacked. But see the Love of God in you, and you will see
It everywhere because it IS everywhere. See His abundance in everyone,
and you will know that you are in Him WITH them. They are part of you, as
you are part of God. YOU are as lonely without understanding this as God
Himself is lonely when His Sons do not know Him. The peace of God IS
understanding this. There is only one way OUT of the world’s thinking,
just as there was only one way INTO it. Understand totally by
understanding TOTALITY.

Perceive ANY part of the ego’s thought system as wholly insane, wholly
delusional and wholly undesirable, and you have correctly evaluated ALL
of it. This correction enables you to perceive ANY part of creation as
wholly real, wholly perfect, and WHOLLY DESIRABLE. Wanting this ONLY,
you will HAVE this only, and giving this only, you will BE only this.
The gifts you offer to the ego are ALWAYS experienced as sacrifices, but
the gifts you offer to the Kingdom are gifts to YOU. They will always be
treasured by God because they belong to His beloved Sons, who belong to
Him. All power and glory are yours BECAUSE the Kingdom is His.

