---
chapter: Thirteen
ctitle: From Perception to Knowledge
title: The Way of Salvation
ref: T13.8
---

When you accept a brother’s guiltlessness, you will see the Atonement in
him. For by proclaiming it in him you make it YOURS, and you WILL see
what you sought. You will not see the symbol of your brother’s
guiltlessness shining within him while you still believe it is not
there. HIS guiltlessness is YOUR Atonement. Grant it to him, and you
will see the truth of what you have acknowledged. Yet truth is offered
FIRST to be received, even as God gave it first to His Son. The first in
time means nothing, but the First in eternity is God the Father,Who is
both First and One. Beyond the First there is no other, for there is no
order, no second or third, and nothing BUT the First.

You who belong to the First Cause, created by Him like unto Himself and
part of Him, are more than merely guiltless. The state of guiltlessness
is only the condition in which what is not there has
been removed from the disordered mind that thought it WAS. This state,
and only this, must YOU attain with God beside you. For until you do,
you will still think that you are separate from Him. You can feel His
Presence next to you, but CANNOT know that you are one with Him. This
need not be taught. Learning applies only to the condition in which it
happens OF ITSELF.

When you have let all that obscured the truth in your most holy mind be
undone for you and stand in grace before your Father, He will give
Himself to you as He has always done. Giving Himself is all He knows,
and so it is all knowledge. For what He knows not cannot be, and
therefore cannot be given. Ask not to be forgiven, for this has already
been accomplished. Ask, rather, to learn how to FORGIVE, and restore
what always was to your unforgiving mind. Atonement becomes real and
visible to them that USE it. On earth this is your only function, and
you must learn that it is all you WANT to learn.

You WILL feel guilty till you learn this. For, in the end, whatever form
it takes, your guilt arises from your failure to fulfill your function
in God’s Mind with all of YOURS. Can you escape this guilt by failing to
fulfill your function here? You need not understand creation to do what
must be done before that knowledge would be meaningful to you. God
breaks no barriers; neither did He MAKE them. When YOU release them they
are gone. God will not fail, nor ever has in anything.

Decide that God is right and YOU are wrong about yourself. He created
you out of Himself, but still within Him. He KNOWS what you are.
Remember that there is no second to Him. There cannot, therefore, be
anyone without His Holiness, nor anyone unworthy of His perfect Love.
Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit, for thus are darkness and deceit undone. Fail not
YOURSELF, but instead, offer to God AND YOU His blameless Son. For this
small gift of appreciation for His Love, God will Himself exchange your
gift for His.

Before you make ANY decisions for yourself, remember that you have
decided AGAINST your function in Heaven, and consider carefully whether
you WANT to make decisions here. Your function here is only to decide
AGAINST deciding what you want, in recognition that you do not KNOW.
How, then, can you decide what
you should do? Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, and
for your function as He KNOWS it. So will He teach you to remove the
awful burden you have laid upon yourself by loving not the Son of God,
and trying to teach him guilt instead of love. Give up this frantic and
insane attempt, which cheats you of the joy of living with your God and
Father, and awaking gladly to His Love and Holiness which join together
as the truth in you, making you One with Him.

When you have learned how to decide WITH God, all decisions become as
easy and as right as breathing. There is no effort, and you will be led
as gently as if you were being carried along a quiet path in summer.
Only your own volition seems to make deciding hard. The Holy Spirit will
not delay at all in answering your EVERY question what to do. He KNOWS.
And He will TELL you and then do it FOR you. You who are tired might
consider whether this is not more restful than sleep. For you can bring
your guilt into sleeping, but not into this.

