---
chapter: Thirteen
ctitle: From Perception to Knowledge
title: The Happy Learner
ref: T13.6
---

The Holy Spirit needs a happy learner, in whom His mission can be
happily accomplished. You who are steadfastly devoted to misery must
first recognize that you ARE miserable and NOT happy. The Holy Spirit
cannot teach without this contrast, for you believe that misery IS
happiness. This has so confused you that you have undertaken to learn to
do what you can NEVER do, believing that UNLESS you learn it, you will
not be happy. You do not realize that the foundation on which this most
peculiar learning goal depends means ABSOLUTELY NOTHING. It DOES make
sense to you.

Have faith in nothing, and you will FIND the “treasure” that you sought.
Yet you will add another burden to your mind, ALREADY burdened or you
would not have sought another. You will believe that nothing is OF
VALUE, and WILL value it. A little piece of glass, a speck of dust, a
body or a war are one to you. For if you value ONE thing made of
nothing, you HAVE believed that nothing can be precious, and that you
can learn how to make the untrue TRUE.

The Holy Spirit, SEEING where you are but KNOWING you are elsewhere,
begins His lesson in simplicity with the fundamental teaching that TRUTH
IS TRUE. This is the hardest lesson you will ever learn, and in the end
the ONLY one. Simplicity is very difficult for twisted minds. Consider
all the distortions you have made of nothing; all the strange forms and
feelings and actions and reactions that you have woven out of it.
Nothing is so alien to you as the simple truth, and nothing are you less
inclined to listen to. The contrast between what is true and what is not
is PERFECTLY apparent, yet you do not see it.

The simple and the obvious are not apparent to those who would make
palaces and royal robes of nothing, believing they are kings with golden
crowns because of them. All this the Holy Spirit sees, and teaches,
simply, that all this is not true. To these unhappy learners who would
teach themselves nothing and delude themselves into believing that it is
NOT nothing, the Holy Spirit says, with steadfast quietness:

> *“The truth is true. Nothing else matters, nothing else is real, and
> everything beside it is not there. Let Me make the one distinction for
> you which you cannot make but need to LEARN. Your faith in nothing IS
> deceiving you. Offer your faith to Me, and I will place it gently in
> the holy place where it belongs. You will find NO deception there, but
> only the simple truth. And you will love it because you will UNDERSTAND
> it.”*

Like you, the Holy Spirit did not MAKE truth. Like God, He KNOWS it to
be true. He brings the light of truth into the darkness, and LETS it
shine on you. And as it shines, your brothers see it, and realizing that
this light is not what you have made, they see in you more than YOU
see. They will be happy learners of the lesson which this light brings to
them because it teaches them RELEASE from nothing and from all the works
of nothing. The heavy chains which seem to bind them unto despair they
do not see as nothing until you bring the light to them. And THEN they
see the chains have disappeared, and so they MUST have been nothing. And
YOU will see it with them. BECAUSE you taught them gladness and release,
they will become YOUR teachers in release and gladness.

When you teach anyone that truth is true, you learn it WITH him. And so
you learn that what seemed hardest was the easiest. Learn to be happy
learners. You will NEVER learn how to make nothing everything. Yet see
that this HAS been your goal, and RECOGNIZE how foolish it has been. Be
glad it is undone, for when you look at it in simple honesty, it IS
undone. We said before,“Be not content with nothing,” for you HAVE
believed that nothing could content you. IT IS NOT SO.

If you would be a happy learner, you must give EVERYTHING that you have
learned over to the Holy Spirit to be UNLEARNED for you. And then begin
to learn the joyous lessons that come quickly on the firm foundation
that truth is true. For what is builded there IS true, and BUILT on
truth. The universe of learning will open up before you in all its
gracious simplicity. With truth before you, you will not look back.

The happy learner meets the conditions of learning here, as he also
meets the conditions of knowledge in the Kingdom. All this lies
in the Holy Spirit’s plan to free you from the past, and open up the way
to freedom for you. For truth IS true. What else could ever be, or ever
was? This simple lesson holds the key to the dark door which you believe
is locked forever. You MADE this door of nothing, and behind it IS
nothing. The key is only the light which shines away the shapes and forms
and fears of nothing. Accept this key to freedom from the hands of
Christ Who gives it to you, that you may join Him in the holy task of
bringing light to darkness. For, like your brothers, you do not realize
the light has come, and FREED you from the sleep of darkness.

Behold your brothers in their freedom, and learn of them how to be FREE
of darkness. The light in you will waken them, and they will not leave
YOU asleep. The vision of Christ is given the very instant that it is
perceived. Where everything is clear it is all holy. The quietness of its
simplicity is so compelling that you will realize it is IMPOSSIBLE to
deny the simple truth. For there IS nothing else. God is everywhere, and
His Son is in Him with everything. Can he sing the dirge of sorrow when
THIS is true?

