---
chapter: Thirteen
ctitle: From Perception to Knowledge
title: The Role of Healing
ref: T13.1
---

Perfect perception, then, has many elements in common with knowledge,
making transfer to it possible. Yet the last step must be taken by God,
because the last step in your redemption, which seems to be in the
future, was accomplished by God in your creation. The separation has not
interrupted it. Creation cannot BE interrupted. The separation is merely
a faulty formulation of reality, with no effect at all. The miracle,
without a function in Heaven, IS needful here. Aspects of reality can
still be seen, and they will replace aspects of UNreality. Aspects of
reality can be seen in everything and everywhere. Yet only God can
gather them together by crowning them as one with the final gift of
eternity.

Apart from the Father and the Son, the Holy Spirit has no function. He
is not separate from either, being in the mind of both and knowing that
Mind is one. He is a Thought of God, and God has given Him to you
because He has no Thoughts He does not share. His message speaks of
timelessness in time, and that is why Christ’s vision looks on
everything with love. Yet even Christ’s vision is not His reality. The
golden aspects of reality which spring to light under His loving gaze
are partial glimpses of the Heaven that lies BEYOND them.

This is the miracle of creation; THAT IT IS ONE FOREVER. Every miracle
you offer to the Son of God is but the true perception of one aspect of
the whole. Though every aspect IS the whole, you cannot know this until
you see that every aspect is the SAME, perceived in the SAME LIGHT and
THEREFORE one. Everyone seen WITHOUT the past thus brings you nearer to
the end of time by bringing healed and healing sight into the darkness,
and enabling the world to see. For light must come into the darkened
world to make Christ’s vision possible even here. Help Him to give His
gift of light to all who think they wander in the darkness, and let Him
gather them into His quiet sight that makes them one.

They are all the same; all beautiful and equal in their holiness. And He
will offer them unto His Father as they were offered unto Him. There is
ONE miracle, as there is ONE reality. And every miracle you do contains
them all, as every aspect of reality you see blends quietly into the One
Reality of God. The only miracle that
ever was is God’s most holy Son, created in the One Reality that is his
Father. Christ’s vision is His gift to you. His Being is His Father’s
gift to Him.

Be you content with healing, for Christ’s gift you CAN bestow, and your
Father’s gift you CANNOT lose. Offer Christ’s gift to everyone and
everywhere, for miracles, offered the Son of God through the Holy
Spirit, attune you to reality. The Holy Spirit knows your part in the
redemption, and who are seeking you and where to find them. Knowledge is
far beyond your individual concern. You who are part of it and all of it
need only realize that it is of the Father, NOT of you. Your role in the
redemption leads you to it by re-establishing its oneness in your minds.

When you have seen your brothers as yourself you will be RELEASED to
knowledge, having learned to free yourself of Him Who knows of freedom.
Unite with me under the holy banner of His teaching, and as we grow in
strength the power of God’s Son will move in us, and we will leave
no-one untouched and no-one left alone. And suddenly time will be over,
and we will all unite in the eternity of God the Father. The holy light
you saw outside yourself, in every miracle you offered to your brothers,
will be RETURNED to you. And KNOWING that the light is IN you, your
creations will be there with you, as you are in your Father.

As miracles in this world join you to your brothers, so do your
creations establish your fatherhood in Heaven. YOU are the witnesses to
the Fatherhood of God, and He has given you the power to create the
witnesses to your fatherhood in Heaven. The miracle which God created is
perfect, as are the miracles which YOU created in His Name. They need no
healing, nor do you, when you know THEM.

Yet in this world your perfection is unwitnessed. God knows it but YOU
do not, and so you do not share His witness to it. Nor do you witness
unto Him, for reality is witnessed to as one. God waits your witness to
His Son and to Himself. The miracles you do on earth are lifted up to
Heaven and to Him. They witness to what you do not know, and as they
reach the gates of Heaven God will open them. For never would He leave
His own beloved Son outside them and beyond Himself.

