---
chapter: Thirteen
ctitle: From Perception to Knowledge
title: The Testimony of Miracles
ref: T13.5
---

Yes, you are blessed indeed. Yet in this world you do not know it. But
you have the means for learning it and seeing it quite clearly. The Holy
Spirit uses logic as easily and as well as does the ego, except that His
conclusions are NOT insane. They take a direction exactly opposite,
pointing as clearly to Heaven as the ego points to darkness and to
death. We have followed much of the ego’s logic, and have seen its
logical conclusions. And having seen them, we have realized that they
can not be seen but in illusions, for there alone their seeming
clearness SEEMS to be clearly seen. Let us now turn away from them, and
follow the simple logic by which the Holy Spirit teaches you the simple
conclusions that speak for truth, and ONLY truth.

If you are blessed and do not know it, you need to LEARN it must be
so. The knowledge is not taught, but its CONDITIONS must be acquired, for
it is they that have been thrown away. You CAN learn to bless, and CANNOT
give what you have not. If, then, you OFFER blessing, it MUST have come
first to yourself. And you must also have ACCEPTED it as yours, for how
else could you give it away?

That is why your miracles offer YOU the testimony that you are blessed.
If what you offer IS complete forgiveness, you MUST have let guilt go,
accepting the Atonement for yourself and learning you are guiltless. How
could you learn what has been done for you, but which you do not know,
unless you do what you would HAVE to do if it HAD been done unto you?
INdirect proof of truth is needed in a world made of denial and without
direction. You will perceive the need for this if you will realize that
to deny is the decision NOT to know. The logic of the world MUST
therefore lead to nothing, for its GOAL is nothing.

If you decide to have and give and BE nothing except a dream, you MUST
direct your thoughts unto oblivion. And if you have and
give and are EVERYTHING, and all this has been DENIED, your thought
system is closed off, and wholly separated from the truth. This IS an
insane world, and do not underestimate the actual extent of its
insanity. There is no area of your perception that it has not touched,
and your dream IS sacred to you. That is why God placed the Holy Spirit
IN you, where you placed the dream.

Seeing is always OUTWARD. Were your thoughts wholly of YOU, the thought
system which you made would be forever dark. The thoughts which the mind
of God’s Son projects have all the power that he gives to them. The
thoughts he shares with God are BEYOND his belief, but those he made ARE
his beliefs. And it is THESE, and NOT the truth, that he has chosen to
defend and love. They will not be taken from him. But they can be GIVEN
UP by him, for the Source of their undoing is IN him. There is nothing
IN the world to teach him that the logic of the world is totally insane,
and leads to nothing. Yet in him who made this insane logic there is One
Who KNOWS it leads to nothing, for He knows everything.

Any direction which will lead you where the Holy Spirit leads you not
goes nowhere. Anything you deny which He knows to be true you have
denied YOURSELF, and He must therefore teach you NOT to deny it. Undoing
IS indirect, as doing is. You were created only to CREATE, neither to
see NOR do. These are but indirect expressions of the will to live,
which has been blocked by the capricious and unholy whim of death and
murder that your Father shared not with you. You have set yourselves the
task of sharing what can not BE shared. And while you think it possible
to LEARN to do this, you will not believe all that IS possible to learn
to do.

The Holy Spirit, therefore, must begin His teaching by showing you what
you can NEVER learn. His MESSAGE is not indirect, but He must introduce
the simple truth into a thought system which has become so twisted and
so complex that you cannot SEE that it means nothing. HE merely looks at
its foundation and dismisses it. But YOU who cannot undo what you have
made cannot see THROUGH it. It deceives you because you chose to deceive
yourselves. Those who choose to BE deceived will merely attack direct
approaches, which would seem but to encroach upon deception and strike
at it.

