---
chapter: Thirteen
ctitle: From Perception to Knowledge
title: The Guarantee of Heaven
ref: T13.4
---


When we are all united in Heaven, you will value NOTHING that you value
here. For nothing that you value here you value wholly, and so you do
not value it at all. Value is where God placed it, and the value of what
God esteems cannot BE judged, for it has been ESTABLISHED. It is WHOLLY
of value. It can merely be appreciated or not. To value it partially is
not to KNOW its value. In Heaven is everything God valued, and nothing
else. Heaven is perfectly unambiguous. Everything is clear and bright,
and calls forth ONE response. There is no darkness, and there is no
contrast. There is no variation. There is no interruption. There is a
sense of peace so deep that no dream in this world has ever brought even
a dim imagining of what it is.

Nothing in this world can give this peace, for nothing in this
world is wholly shared. Perfect perception can merely show you what is
CAPABLE of being wholly shared. It can also show you the RESULTS of
sharing, while you still remember the results of NOT sharing. The Holy
Spirit points quietly to the contrast, knowing that you will finally let
Him judge the difference for you, allowing Him to demonstrate which MUST
be true. He has perfect faith in your final judgement because He knows
that He will make it FOR you. To doubt this would be to doubt that His
mission will be fulfilled. How is this possible, when His mission is of
God?

You whose minds are darkened by doubt and guilt, remember this: God gave
the Holy Spirit to you, and gave Him the mission to remove all doubt and
every trace of guilt that His dear Son has laid upon himself. It is
IMPOSSIBLE that this mission fail. Nothing can prevent what God would
have accomplished from accomplishment. Whatever your reactions to the
Holy Spirit’s Voice may be, whatever voice you choose to listen to,
whatever strange thoughts may occur to you, God’s Will IS done. You WILL
find the peace in which He has established you because He does not
change His Mind. He is invariable as the peace in which you dwell, and
of which the Holy Spirit reminds you.

You will not remember change and shift in Heaven. You have need of
contrast only here. Contrast and differences are necessary teaching
aids, for by them you learn what to avoid and what to seek. When you
have learned this you will find the answer that makes the need for ANY
differences disappear. Truth comes of its own will unto its own. When you
have learned that you BELONG to truth, it will flow lightly over you
without a difference of any kind. For you will need no contrast to help
you realize that this is what you want, and ONLY this. Fear not the Holy
Spirit will fail in what your Father has given Him to do. The Will of
God can fail in NOTHING.

Have faith in only this one thing, and it will be sufficient: God wills
you be in Heaven, and nothing can keep YOU from it or IT from you. Your
wildest misperceptions, your weird imaginings, your blackest nightmares
all mean nothing. They will not prevail against the peace God wills for
you. The Holy Spirit will restore your sanity because insanity is NOT
the Will of God. If that suffices Him, it is enough for you. You will
not keep what God would have removed
because it breaks communication with you with whom He would communicate.
His voice WILL be heard.

The communication link which God Himself placed within you, joining your
minds with His, CANNOT be broken. You may believe you WANT it broken,
and this belief DOES interfere with the deep peace in which the sweet
and constant communication which God would share with you is known. Yet
His channels of reaching out cannot be wholly closed and separated from
Him. Peace will be yours because His peace still flows to you from Him
Whose Will IS peace. You have it NOW. The Holy Spirit will teach you how
to USE it, and by projecting it to learn that it is in you.

God willed you Heaven, and will ALWAYS will you nothing else. The Holy
Spirit knows ONLY of His Will. There is no chance that Heaven will not
be yours, for God is sure, and what He wills is sure as He is. You will
learn salvation because you will learn HOW TO SAVE. It will not be
possible to exempt yourself from what the Holy Spirit wills to teach
you. Salvation is as sure as God. His certainty suffices. Learn that
even the darkest nightmare that disturbed the mind of God’s sleeping Son
holds no power over him. He WILL learn the lesson of awaking. God
watches over him and light surrounds him.

Can God’s Son lose himself in dreams when God has placed WITHIN him the
glad call to waken and be glad? He cannot separate HIMSELF from what is
IN him. His sleep will not withstand the call to wake. The mission of
redemption will be fulfilled as surely as the creation will remain
unchanged throughout eternity. You do not have to know that Heaven is
yours to make it so. It IS so. Yet the Will of God must be accepted as
YOUR will, to know it.

The Holy Spirit cannot fail to undo FOR you everything you have learned
that teaches you what is not true must be reconciled with truth. This is
the reconciliation which the ego would substitute for your
reconciliation unto sanity and unto peace. The Holy Spirit has a very
different kind of reconciliation in His Mind for you, and one which He
WILL effect as surely as the ego will NOT effect what it attempts.

Failure is of the ego, NOT of God. From Him you CANNOT wander, and there
is no possibility that the plan the Holy Spirit offers
to everyone, for the salvation OF everyone, will not be perfectly
accomplished. You WILL be released, and you will not remember anything
you made that was not created FOR you and BY you in return. For how can
you remember what was NEVER true, or NOT remember what has always been?
It is this reconciliation with truth, and ONLY truth, in which the peace
of Heaven lies.

