---
title: Jun 2, 2013
ref: Discussion ( needs formatting )
---

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the
Internet.

Tonight we will not be going into the book because there is something
else which it is very important for us to look at together.  And so,
before we do that, let’s all take a few moments to be quiet together.

[Quiet time]

Okay.  Tonight we need to talk about Family.  We need to talk about
Brotherhood.  We need to talk about the practicalities of Love and how
they get translated into expression in the world with each other.

When you look at the world today, you see a world calling out for help.
It looks like people in distress doing the best they can to overcome
inequities.  And you know what?  You all do watch the news, and you do
recognize that “this” is an awful situation, or “that’s” a terrible one,
or another is “unprincipled,” and the inclination is to throw one’s
hands up and give up.

But everyone who is screaming for help in various languages of
expression is asking for one thing:  They’re asking for you – everyone
who’s hearing my voice at the moment – they’re asking for you to cover
their back.  They’re asking for someone, to use the vernacular, to
“cover their ass” – to stand behind them with commitment, to witness for
them and to witness for them with commitment.  In other words, they want
to hear you say, “I am covering your back and you can depend on it!”  

It’s called “a bond of Brotherhood.”  It’s called the real expression of
Family.  

It’s your function to cover your Brother’s back.  It’s my function to
cover my Brother’s back.  It’s Paul’s and Susan’s and Chris and Judy’s
function to cover their Brother’s back by making commitment to me and to
everyone I speak to and communicate with – and to do it dependably so
that you can count on it.

My covering your back is not a special function of mine.  It is not
something for you to watch me do with everyone else and marvel at it or
consider how wonderful it is, or “How does he do that?  How does he
manage to say just the right thing?”

It isn’t a show I’m putting on to make everyone be in a place of wonder.  

No.  It’s my function because I’m part of our Family.  And I am in the
process of covering your backs – teaching you that it is your function
as well – so that you understand that the benefit of knowing the Truth
will never be a private benefit for you and you alone, that will get you
and you alone into the Kingdom of Heaven while Joe down the street or
Mary in the next city will find their way to be inspired into Awakening
into the Kingdom of Heaven.

The call is involvement, because that is the Meaning of Family.  It is a
commitment to Love.  It is a commitment to make the Gift of Love.

Now, I’ve said that it’s everyone’s responsibility to cover their
Brother's back.  And if you’re not careful, you might become preoccupied
with looking to see who’s going to cover yours.  And the minute you do
that, you’re in the wrong frame of mind.

Love is giving, not getting.  And when you attend to your function – not
being concerned whether so-in-so is attending to his function – you will
make the Gift that sets into motion . . . transformation, healing,
regeneration, redemption.

Now I’m mentioning this . . . I’m bringing this up, because what I am
teaching and what I have been sharing for over thirty years through Paul
with the devotion and help of Susan and Christopher and Judy, is the
“Pearl of Great Price.1”  I am sharing what empowers each one of you,
not as an ego, but by illuminating for you how to release the ego and
reunite with your Father, claiming thereby your Birthright that has
always been your Birthright, so that you might abandon the orphan
mentality of “getting” and shift into the holy Son of God or the holy
Daughter of God mentality of giving.

This is the real meaning of covering your Brother's back:  “I’ve got
your back and you can depend upon it.”  “I am here for you and you can
depend upon it, because I am abandoning the quest for getting help from
others and shifting into my natural capacity to give the inspiration
that I get by practicing the two-step – by wanting to know what the
Truth is here so that I might share the Truth instead of complaining
about my need, so that those who are still complaining about their need
might hear what allows them to abandon their obsession with it and their
fear of it.”

Now it’s very simple:  Paul and Susan and Chris and Judy have a
long-standing, ongoing commitment to making the Gift, to listening to me
and doing whatever it takes to extend It.  And they have done this and
done this and done this and done this.  They certainly are not . . .
what shall I say . . . providing “entertainment” on the Internet for
those who love to surf the Internet for interesting things to share with
others to be amazed about, but not be changed by.

The Course is a world-changer.  The Course is that which expresses the
truth that sets everyone free.  It clearly states the freedom message in
today’s language.  And we – myself, Paul, Susan, Chris and Judy continue
to expand on that.  It is an effort worthy of attention.  Why?  Because
what is extended is actually transformational . . . actually does
provide the committed involvement that constitutes covering your
Brother's back.

No one should be taking it for granted.  And no one should be treating
it lightly, simply because it is so incredibly transformational.  And
I’m inviting everyone to look at whatever opportunities you have in
front of you to make the Gift . . . to say to your Brother in one way or
another, “I’ve got your back and you can count on it!”

But I’m also specifically asking and encouraging everyone to take a look
at what Paul and Susan and Chris and Judy are engaged in with me, and
not treat it lightly.  It is significant enough for everyone to honor
significantly, and support significantly.

At the present time, support is insufficient.  Needs are not being met.  

There are those who consistently, lovingly and with commitment support
the work financially – making contributions, responding when a need is
expressed, without hesitation.  That is what keeps things going.
Because, . . why?  Because it supports an ongoing commitment from Paul
and Susan and Chris and Judy.  An ongoing commitment of the extension,
dependably – of voicing the truth and being there for you, and being
there for you at any time of the day or the night on the Internet,
covering your back.

One can  say, “Well God will take care of them” or “I don’t have to be
clear with great focus about this.  My general positive attitude and
support of everything they’re doing is a prayer in itself.”

But if you’re not moved to action, your Brother's back isn’t covered.
And the dependability of your covering their back is meaningless.  And
it needs to come into play because it is inseparable from Awakening.

When you are finally willing to abandon your great independence and say
“Father, what is the truth here?” and by the acknowledgment that your
Father is your Father, you are acknowledging that you are His Son or
Daughter, you are, well, for lack of better words, beginning to take
yourself seriously in your holiness, in your presence as Love, Whose
function is the spontaneous Gift of Itself, dependably.

Now, as I said, the world is crying out.  It appears to be a world of
distress, but it is Brothers and Sisters saying, “Will someone cover my
back in a way that I can depend upon.  I am suffering from the lack of
Brotherhood.  I am suffering for the absence of the meaning of Family.  

“And you know what?  I want you!  I don’t want your spiritual thoughts.
I want you recognizing me and standing with me and witnessing for me.
And of course, that means I want That which is divine in you to stand
with and witness for That which is divine in me.  And I want you to do
it with strength and courage because our Brotherhood is unexcelled, our
Brotherhood is an infinitely meaningful thing and we deserve to be
experiencing it together.

“Please come off of your high-horse.  Please come off of your air of
superiority.  Please come off of your independence and let That which is
Real in you stand with – backing up – That which is Real in me, so that
we might be able to stop being afraid of each other and defending
ourselves against each other and crying because of the misery of such a
state of affairs.”

Now, I’m telling you the God’s honest truth.

There is much more that Paul and Susan and Chris and Judy could be
extending if it weren’t for the time taken up coping with lack.  There
is not a day that goes by that a trip is not made to the Post Office to
see if there are contributions and then to the bank to deposit what’s
there.

This is not what Paul and Susan’s life is meant to be for.  There is no
sense of home.  There’s no sense of a peaceful place in which to make
the extension.

Now, Paul can look at Chris with me and see his indispensability, and
see his devotion, and to see his unwavering support of not letting
anything get in the way of making the extension.  It is obvious:  The
incredible fit together that makes this a team which has not been
subject to the ego variables that usually accompany “a partnership.”
This is very uncommon.  And I am very grateful for it.  And everyone
else should be very grateful for it as well.

Now, one might say, that I’m laying a guilt trip on everyone.  But I’m
not.  I’m not asking anyone to do anything that he’s not feeling.  But I
am illuminating what things there are to have feelings about so that
everyone might take a look at them with fresh eyes, joining with the
Holy Spirit to ask, “What is the truth here?”  “How can I cover my
brother’s back dependably, because I’m there for him with commitment?”
“How can I do that when that isn’t something I’m really used to?”  “I
have been raised and taught to be independent, to not be needy, and
certainly not to burden others with my needs.”

And yet, in your lack, you do cry out, just as the world is, very
visibly.  And you cry out for someone to be there with you to cover your
back dependably with love – to cover your back because they love you.

I cover your back because I love you.  Paul and Susan and Judy and Chris
have commitment to the extension of my Love and theirs with commitment,
even when it’s been awkward or not easy.  

Now the simple fact is that there is insufficient support to do the
work.  But here’s the thing:  Neither Paul, nor Susan, nor Chris, nor
Judy are going to stop making their commitment and extending.  

In other words, the apparent impossibility of things is not a governing
factor.  They will persist.  Here we are tonight, persisting –
persisting by illuminating what will refresh the Movement, what will put
everyone into alignment with the expression of love, and of valuing what
is important, . .  enough to stand behind it and to stand behind those
who are committed to sharing it as they have unswervingly for thirty
years.

They have no idea how they can continue, but they’re going to.  And with
that kind of commitment, you might say that “the energies of Movement”
can configure behind them in support of it.  And that’s the way it
always works.

Engaging in the two-step, practicing the holy instant, provides an
environment and the energy of truth which, for lack of better words, the
Universe can get behind, and cover your back.

You might say, “Well, why are you and why isn’t Paul doing that
themselves instead of laying a trip on us of responsibility?”  Well,
because it’s not about concepts.  It’s not about practicing little
obediences that fit a structure of “how things ought to work.”  

Right now that which covers your back and covers Paul’s and Susan’s and
Chris’s and Judy’s back is me saying exactly what I’m saying.  You see?
Doing something else is not what constitutes the Movement of God right
now in this situation.  And so we’re not reading from the Course
tonight.  And I’m not talking about how everyone can go on their little
independent way and somehow find wholeness and healing and redemption.

I’m talking about the need, and the meaning of Family and Brotherhood,
because those Realities need to be felt.  And in the feeling of them
they will elicit expressions, actions of Love.  And everyone’s back will
be covered, dependably if one does not swerve from the commitment to
such a simply premise.

Now, that was the unfolding of the Father’s purpose this evening.  This
was the miracle of these moments we have spent together.

I thank you for listening and I love you all.

1Mathew 13:45
Raj did not read from the Course tonight

