---
title: Jul 7, 2013
ref: T13.8 The Way of Salvation ( needs formatting )
---

The original subject as it was dictated to Helen was “The Way of
Salvation.”  And when the books were edited, it was changed to “Your
Function in the Atonement.”  The new Heading is appropriate.   A key
point—a very important point.

Let’s take a few moments of quiet time before we begin.

[Quiet time]

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

Well, several people found what I had to say last week to be difficult
or problematic.  I was, perhaps, never clearer in expressing the problem
of the human condition and its answer.  And to some  degree, what I
shared seemed to convict everyone to one degree or another.   

Someone responded and said, “It was tough medicine, but I needed it.”
Another commented that it knocked the wind out of their sails, because
they thought they had been being a genuinely kind and loving person.
But after hearing what I had to say and paying attention to their
behavior, they discovered how, shall I say, shallow was their kindness .
. . in other words, how easy it was for their “genuine kindness” to
shift to anger or judgment if the kindness expressed was not received or
was ridiculed or not cooperated with.

So it has put many in a position of having to reevaluate themselves and
to the use to which they’re putting their mind.  And it isn’t
necessarily easy, especially when one’s behavior has been revealed to
him by his very own observance to be self-righteous . . . to be
self-serving . . . to be manipulative.  That’s not an easy thing to
swallow.

And yet, as I said last week, when one is disturbed by clarity, this is
a forward step.  Because clarity allows new decisions to be made that
can effect actual change.  And this is important.

Now there are many reasons that what I shared last week might be
interpreted as being an impossible task.  After all, the bottom line is
that you are here to cover your Brothers’ back.  You are here to be
involved with your Brother or your Sister in a way that supports the
illumination and disclosure of their divinity, the uncovering of that
which results in healing.  And that activity genuinely engaged in will
interfere with whatever your goals are – whatever plans you have for
yourself.

That’s when you find out that you’re not as kind as you think you are
and that your kindness is not as genuine that you thought it was.

And yet the call is for that kindness to become genuine so that your
willingness to cover your Brothers’ back is engaged in with commitment –
with real caring.  Not an act of caring, but real caring, real
involvement.

Now, in some ways, as you’re willing to test this way of Being out, you
will find that it will seem to call for you to abandon yourself.  After
all, if covering your Brothers’ back, if engaging in the genuine
practice of love towards your Brothers and Sisters, if that is what is
going to govern you, then you will seem to be at the mercy of, for lack
of better words, your Brothers’ needs.

“Oh my goodness, I can’t do that, I have my own needs to take care of.
In fact if I don’t take care of my own needs, I won’t be able to
convince my Brothers and Sisters that I’m worthy of their attention and
worthy of their support.  And therefore, I can’t afford to abandon
myself.”  You see?

It seems to be an impossible task, if you have to put yourself, not just
in second place, but in last place.  And yet, the way Home involves
looking into your Brothers’ eyes and remembering God.  

Again, an impossibility!  An impracticality!  Something that it is
unreasonable for you to be asked to do.  And yet, it’s not.  It is the
simple answer.  It is the practice of the holy instant.  It is the
practice of the two-step where you shut up!  And what that means is, you
shut up your thinking . . . you shut up your agendas . . . you shut up
your self-righteous urgency to take care of yourself as number one, and
get everyone else to help take care of you while you imply to them that
you’re taking care of them.

Now you, in order to come Home, must arrive at a point where you’re
willing to reach out to the Father.  You must be willing to arrive at a
point where you will reach out to the Father and ask for help! “Father,
what is the truth here? Aside from my best judgments, aside from my best
agendas, aside from what I want, what is truth here?  What is the truth
that heals?  What is the truth that transforms?  What is the truth that
Wakes us all up?”

Again, a seeming impossibility.  You say, “Well, I’m not in touch with
my Guide like Paul is, or so-in-so is.  I don’t have that skill, or if I
do, I haven’t uncovered it in myself yet.  And actually, I haven’t done
it with total commitment yet, I haven’t reached out genuinely yet.  I’ve
reached out with curiosity as though it’s something interesting and
perhaps valuable.  But you know, I haven’t done it as though I needed to
do it.”  And that’s the problem.

Nevertheless, it seems to be another reason to say that what I shared
last week is impossible and is unreasonable.  And that’s why we are
moving back about one hundred pages in the Text to a place that we’ve
already read and shared together, which now is going to have far much
more meaning than it did before and which will clearly express to you
the factuality — the truth of what I shared last week. And it will state
it so clearly, that even though it still seems impossible to you, you
will understand that what seems to be impossible to you, must not be
impossible, because here is an answer to the impossibility stated so
succinctly that you can’t deny, for lack of better words, its pure
logic.

This section that we will be reading tonight, I ask you to write the
page numbers on a post-it note and put it somewhere where you can always
see it.  So that when doing the two-step, when practicing the holy
instant seems to you to be impossible or certainly not a reasonable
thing to do constantly and consistently, you can come back here and see
it stated very perfectly, clearly.  So that it might inspire you to put
a little more faith in the impossible – to put a little more faith in
its possibility.

You know what?  A shift is occurring.  A shift of Awakening is
occurring.  And those who are beginning to be aware of it think it’s
impossible.  But those who join in actually pushing the envelope, if I
may put it that way, by engaging in the holy instant over and over and
over and over again, daily, hourly, all who engage in the pushing of the
envelope help break the envelope, help break the bubble that seems to be
holding you in the human condition.  

And so it’s important.

So, let’s go into the book now:


THE WAY OF SALVATION or YOUR  FUNCTION  IN THE ATONEMENT

When you accept a brother’s guiltlessness, . .

. . . that means, when you’re willing to cover your Brother’s back by
standing close and with him, . .

When you accept a brother’s guiltlessness, you will see the Atonement in
him.

Mind you, this is a statement of fact.  Everything that I will be
reading here, is a statement of fact which you can rely upon and which
you should read with the comprehension that it’s worth being open to its
Real Meaning.  Again . . .

When you accept a brother’s guiltlessness, . .

. . . when you’re willing to give him the benefit of the doubt, when
you’re willing to stand in support of him even though he may have
screwed you royally in the past, when you’re willing to stand with him
to see his divinity, . .

. . . you will see the Atonement in him.  For by proclaiming it in him .
. .

. . . meaning, for by your proclaiming it in him . . .

. . . you make it YOURS, . .

. . . you see?

. . . and you WILL see what you sought.

Another way of putting that is, you get to keep what you give.

You will not see the symbol of your brother’s guiltlessness shining
within him while you still believe it is not there.

Simple, straight-forward, factual.

HIS guiltlessness is YOUR Atonement.

What does that mean?  That means that your insistence upon looking at
him to see his guiltlessness by saying, “Father what is the truth here?”
your doing that makes it yours.  Because it reveals your Brother’s
guiltlessness to you and when you see it about your Brother you
immediately recognize that it’s the truth about yourself as well.  

But you won’t see it about yourself until you extend it to your Brother
first.  Another seemingly impossible thing and yet that’s the only way
it works and therefore, it is possible!

HIS guiltlessness is YOUR Atonement. Grant it to him, . .

. . . grant his guiltlessness to him . . .

. . . and you will see the truth of what you have acknowledged.  Yet
truth is offered FIRST to be received, . .

. . . to make that even clearer we could say, Yet truth is offered first
in order to be received . . .

. . . even as God gave it first to His Son.

. . . you and your Brothers and Sisters.

The first in time means nothing, but the First in eternity is God the
Father, Who is both First and One.

Meaning, indivisible.

Beyond the First there is no other, for there is no order, no second or
third, and nothing BUT the First. 

This is important. This is why Reality is unconflicted.  This is why
harmony is the eternal fact.  This is why eternity is eternity.  There
is nothing to break it up.  There is nothing to break it down.

You who belong to the First Cause, . .

. . . God . . .

. . . created by Him like unto Himself and part of Him, . .

. . . because there’s nothing outside the One that God is . . .

. . . are more than merely guiltless.

You at this instant, as you are listening, are guiltless.  That is the
eternal unchangeable fact about you, one which you do not believe.  And
one which you do not experience, because you are maintaining a duality.
God is both First and One.  Singular, indivisible.  

Therefore, your attempt to be an independent agent is an attempt to
create a second, in addition to God, which is impossible.  And the
impossibility of it is experienced as sin, sickness and death – the
human condition.  It’s not true.  It’s not actual.  But as long as this
attempt to be separate and independent and a second to God, that is the
problem that needs to be solved.

It means that anything you engage in independently, any thought you have
that is not guided by the Holy Spirit or the Father, is the creative
movement of the illusion – of mortality, period.  

It is never valuable.  And to abandon it does not constitute the
abandoning of yourself.  Even though you identify so closely with your
thinking, you believe that when you’re not thinking, you will cease to
exist.  Which is another thing that makes what I’m teaching seem to be
impossible.

Again:

You who belong to the First Cause, created by Him like unto Himself and
part of Him, are more than merely guiltless. The state of guiltlessness
is only the condition in which what is not there has been removed from
the disordered mind that thought it WAS.

Your guilt never was present.  You imagine it is.  But it is not
present.  

The state of guiltlessness . . .

. . . which is your true state . . .

. . . is only the condition in which what is not there . . .

. . . meaning guilt . . .

. . . has been removed from the disordered mind that thought it WAS.
This state, and only this, must YOU attain with God beside you.

In other words, it is something you need to consciously engage in the
release of by joining with the Father consciously, by having the
conscious intent not to be separate, independent and isolated.

This state, and only this, must YOU attain . . .

. . . you have to initiate . . .

. . . must YOU attain with God beside you. For until you do, you will
still think that you are separate from Him. You can feel His Presence
next to you, but CANNOT know that you are one with Him.

This is a little tricky . . .

This need not be taught.  Learning applies only to the condition in
which it happens OF ITSELF. 

You see?  You think you teach yourself things.  But it’s in the absence
of your teaching yourself things, it’s in the silence of the infinite
Mind that you are, that the infinite Mind that God is as your Mind, can
register [snaps fingers] with you.  And then you learn because truth is
revealed and perceived by you but not at your own hand.

And as I’ve said before, this is what is insulting. And to those who are
sorely identified with their thinking, it means that you’ve got to give
up your existence.  That’s what it seems like to you, which you perceive
to be an impossible thing to willingly do because it feels like
committing suicide.

When you have let all that obscured the truth in your most holy mind be
undone for you and stand in grace before your Father, He will give
Himself to you as He has always done.

There it is.  You cannot teach yourself.  But in the absence of your
busy thinking – of your indulgence in self-righteousness – in the
absence of that, the Father takes the last step.  The Father reveals
Himself to you.  He will give Himself to you as He has always done.
What does that mean, He has always done?  Yes, because Being is a
Movement of God into manifestation.

Creation is the Movement of God into manifestation.  God is always
giving Himself to you as your Self, as your Identity.  God is giving
Himself to you as your Identity.  And you see, as long as you’re
attempting to maintain a puny little private sense of self, you are
refusing the Gift of God, of Himself to you.

Giving Himself is all He knows, and so it is all knowledge. For what He
knows not cannot be, and therefore cannot be given.

Do you see?  This is slowly and clearly undermining any justification
you might have for valuing and validating yourself as a private entity
with a mind of your own, who has been given a gift of free will by God,
you say, to act independent of God, to ignore God if you so choose.  And
that’s all fantasy.  And it simply needs to be abandoned.

Ask not to be forgiven, for this has already been accomplished.

You can’t be forgiven for what you haven’t done.  And you have not
managed to be an orphan.  You have not managed to be an independent
agent acting in opposition to the Father.  It can’t be done!  And so you
haven’t done it.  Therefore you are not guilty of it and you can thereby
abandon the feelings of guilt that keep you from reaching out to the
Father and embracing Him and His Gift to you of Himself as all there is
to you.

You see?  It’s utter simplicity.  But it requires the complete
abandonment of self-will, which finds expression through
self-righteousness.

Ask not to be forgiven, for this has already been accomplished. Ask,
rather, to learn how to FORGIVE, and restore what always was to your
unforgiving mind.

What unforgiving mind?  Well, the mind that gets pissed off when
somebody else doesn’t pay attention to the kindness and the goodness
that’s extended to them.  And they don’t appreciate it and they take up
your time giving you the opportunity to be kind and then waste your time
by not taking it and using it and benefitting from it.  You see?  

The anger that comes up is a manifestation of an unforgiving mind.  And
that means that the gift of kindness that you thought you were giving
was an act of kindness – an act, not a genuine kindness.  It’s the
evidence of an unforgiving mind, resting just below the surface, ready
to pounce if the good you are doing isn’t well-received.  

That is self-righteousness.  And self-righteousness, as I said last
week, is the number one killer.  It is that which keeps you separate
from the Source of your Life which is your Father, Who, by making the
Gift of Himself to you as you is the non-existence of an independent
agent, and is the presence of You in your right Mind enjoying and
perceiving Creation as it truly Is, so full of joy and love that there
cannot be any occasion for mean-spirited, small minded self-interest,
self-righteousness, self-importance.

Atonement becomes real and visible to them that USE it.

Atonement becomes real and visible to them that USE it.  It remains
invisible to those who do not use it . . . to those who refuse to engage
in the holy instant or the two-step and defer to something beyond their
puny little self-righteous independent agent attitude.

Atonement becomes real and visible to them that USE it. On earth . . . 

. . . listen to this . . . where you are.  

On earth this is your only function, and you must learn that it is all
you WANT to learn.

Do you see how clearly this is put and how it states that what seems to
be an impossibility has to be a possibility else you would not be
directed to engage in it?  It is your unbelief that gets in the way of
your hearing the truth of this.  But it is so clearly said here that it
will be easier for you to be willing to push the envelope and to press
for functioning outside of whatever the current limits are that are
binding you.

You WILL . . .[repeats] you WILL feel guilty till you learn this. 

Period.  Simple.  Straight forward.  The truth, as long as you are
trying to deny Reality, Reality will be problematic for you, because it
will continue to be omnipresent and omnipotent and it will not honor the
limits you try to impose on it.  And so it will always press itself
against the limits you are trying to reinforce and you will call that
opposition and you will try to get rid of it.  

You WILL feel guilty till you learn this. For, in the end, whatever form
it takes, your guilt arises from your failure to fulfill your function
in God’s Mind with all of YOURS. 

Hear it again:

For, in the end, whatever form it takes, your guilt arises from your
failure to fulfill your function in God’s Mind with all of YOURS. 

. . . with all of your mind.  

What is that function?  To cover your Brother’s back, to abandon your
independence, to become vulnerable enough to let your Brother in and to
feel into your Brother and care enough, so that the hurt that you find
there is something you want to help get rid of so that you, with
commitment, ask further of the Father or the Holy Spirit, “What is the
truth here that will heal? Because I want to be fulfilling my function
here.”

Can you escape this guilt by failing to fulfill your function here? 

Of course not, you’re just going to keep the guilt in place – reaffirm
it.

You need not understand creation to do what must be done before that
knowledge would be meaningful to you. 

So, don’t try to understand this before you do it.  You don’t need to.
And you’re prejudice, because of the state of self-righteousness that
you’re in, will tend to keep you from even being able to understand
Creation.  And so you must do the only thing you’ve been asked to do: be
willing to look into your Brother’s eyes and remember God.  Look at your
Brother with the intent to find God there.  That’s what you’re asked to
do . . . and that you can do if you’re willing.

God breaks no barriers; neither did He MAKE them. When YOU release them
they are gone. 

When you release the arguments you have and all the confidences you have
put in place that hold you securely, and hold your Brother securely in
the orphan state of mind, when you release those, when you stop
reinforcing them by persisting in looking into your Brother’s eyes and
wishing to see God and thereby covering his back, when you do that, when
you release them, they are gone, because they never where actual, they
never were actually there.

God will not fail, nor ever has in anything. 

Now we’re going to get even more specific.  This is what we’ve been
talking about for the last few weeks and especially last week.

Decide that God is right and YOU are wrong about yourself. 

In other words, decide that your choice to be a self-righteous,
arrogant, manipulator is a misunderstanding of yourself – of who you are
– that you are employing.  And so, deciding that God is right and YOU
are wrong about yourself is essential to escaping from the bondage that
you have created.  

He created you out of Himself, but still within Him. 

Remember there is no second to God, or third or fourth.  There’s no
outside of God.  So everything that exists, exists within the Wholeness
the Oneness that God Is, and thereby embodies or manifests that
singularity, that indivisible non-conflicted Presence.

He KNOWS what you are. 

And I’m going to backup two sentences once more:

Decide that God is right and YOU are wrong about yourself.

That’s not very satisfying to the ego.  It’s insulting to the ego.  And
if you are wrong about yourself then everything that you have
misunderstood or understood incorrectly about yourself, which you use to
identify who you are to yourself, will have to go, will have to be
released.  And again, that seems like extermination – the end of you.
And again, I say, it is not!  And it is an essential step in the
Atonement.

Continuing:

Remember that there is no second to Him. There cannot, therefore, be
anyone without His . . .

. . . God’s . . .

. . . Holiness, nor anyone unworthy of His perfect Love. 

And that means you at this very instant . . . now . . . now . . . now .
. . now, tomorrow, the next day, every single moment.

Now here’s your task:

Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit, for thus are darkness and deceit undone. 

Let’s make this a little bit more understandable.

Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit, . .

Well what is this loveless place made out of darkness and deceit?  Well
of course, it’s the self-righteousness you engage in.  It’s that
mean-spirited, ugliness, this arbitrary offensiveness just beneath the
surface that comes into play when you are affronted by a lack of respect
for the good that you are doing. 

So when it says:

Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit, . .

. . . it means, fail not to catch yourself in the act of self-righteous
judgment and call yourself on it.  Call yourself on it.  Tell yourself
to “stop,” and then stop using your mind that way.  Do not energize the
darkness and the deceit of self-righteousness.  And right then and
there, shift your attention to look at your Brother, even if you can’t
look directly in his eyes, look at him or look at her with the intent to
see God there and acknowledge God there, because if he or she exists at
all, it is because God is making the Gift of Himself right there as your
Brother or Sister.

Fail not in your function of loving in a loveless place made out of
darkness and deceit, for thus are darkness and deceit undone.

Again, for simplicity:  When you find yourself employing self-righteous
judgment and you catch yourself, and you abruptly bring it to a halt and
you replace it with the desire to see God in your Brother by asking God,
“What is the truth here about your Brother?” then the darkness and
deceit are undone.  The self-righteousness in you is undone and it is no
longer the number one killer in your life.  Get it?

Fail not YOURSELF, but instead, offer to God AND YOU His blameless Son. 

Meaning you.

For this small gift of appreciation for His Love, . .

. . . for God’s Love . . .

God will Himself exchange your gift for His. 

You see?  When you make that gift of wishing to see God in whatever
you’re looking at, that is the gift you are giving to God.  And God will
receive it and exchange His Gift with yours.  His Gift is: Being All
there Is of You.  Gifting You with all that He Is and nothing else.

See now, here’s a little bit more of the seeming impossibility that this
makes clear is possible, else it wouldn’t give you such a clear
direction.

Before you make ANY decisions for yourself, remember that you have
decided AGAINST your function in Heaven, and consider carefully whether
you WANT to make decisions here. 


Um… the only way that makes sense is if you understand that you, in an
independent position, making decisions, is this false independent sense
of self that got a divorce from the Father and therefore can’t actually
accomplish anything whatsoever,  that  you have to be willing to
invalidate and not attempt to use.  But as long as you are attempting
it, then you have decided against your function in Heaven.

What’s your function in Heaven?  Your function in Heaven is to refer to
the Father, “What is the truth here?” and listen and hear His answer and
embrace it.  That’s your function in Heaven.

So again, before you make any decisions for yourself through the use of
your puny little mind and your ability to use reason and logic and your
ability to intermingle your intent with all of the mutual agreements
that everyone has created in order to have societies that function half
way well, when you are willing to invalidate that, and seemingly make
the you, you thought you were, extinct, you are at the threshold of the
Atonement.  

Again, here:  

Before you make ANY decisions for yourself, remember that you have
decided AGAINST your function in Heaven, and consider carefully whether
you WANT to make decisions here.

. . . on Earth with your puny private little mind.

Your function here . . .

. . . listen:

Your function here is only to decide AGAINST deciding what you want, in
recognition that you do not KNOW. 

Meaning:  in recognition that you in your so-called independent state of
mind do not Know the Truth.  You do not know enough to make a decision
that would be in harmony with Creation, with your Source and therefore
with your Self.  And therefore, that which divides you –
self-righteousness – is still the number one killer.  And the Atonement
which is waiting your acceptance of It and your practice of It,
continues to seem to be unavailable to you.

How, then, can you decide what you should do? 

Yeah, let’s not answer that too quick.  

How, then, can you decide what you should do? 

A flip answer would be, “Well, I can’t.  Well, I can’t.  What do you
expect?”  Well, that’s not the answer.  That’s just more
self-righteousness.  That’s more orphan talk.  

The question again:

How, then, can you decide what you should do? 

And here’s the answer:  

Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, and for your function
as He KNOWS it. 

“Oh God, there’s that impossible thing again.  I’ve got to listen and
I’ve got to defer and I can’t even hear my Guide.  Thanks a lot.”  

Oh boy, got a little more self-righteousness don’t we.  And it gets in
the way.  It stands in the way of your humility.  It stands in the way
of your saying, “Well, if I can’t hear from my Guide yet, but everything
is set up so that when I reach out to my Guide or to the Father, an
answer will be provided that will lift me out of the orphanage, that
will lift me out of the human condition, that will free me from the
self-righteousness, what will that look like?  What is the answer?”  And
then you patiently and humbly continue to listen because you feel the
need.  Until you feel the need you won’t bring the commitment, the
genuineness to the process, which is necessary.

Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, . 

. . . Who’s the one Who speaks for God?  The Holy Spirit.  What is the
Holy Spirit?  That which is nothing more than your right Mind, which you
could never get away from, but which you could ignore by making so much
independent noise yourself that you drown out the Voice for Truth –
which is your right Mind.  That’s why the first step of the two-step is
to “shut up.”  Simplicity.

Leave all decisions to the One Who speaks for God, and for your function
as He KNOWS it

The Holy Spirit – that which is nothing more than your right Mind –
knows your function because it is you in your right Mind.

So will He teach you to remove the awful burden you have laid upon
yourself by loving not the Son of God, and trying to teach him guilt
instead of love. 

Yes, that is what you have been doing.  And you do it by means of the
self-righteousness that is just beneath the love and the consideration
and the kindness that you bring into play with the conscious intent to
manipulate for your benefit and then secondarily for the benefit of the
one you are coercing. 

So will He . . . 

. . . that which is nothing more than your right Mind . . .

. . . teach you to remove the awful burden you have laid upon yourself
by loving not the Son of God, and trying to teach him guilt instead of
love. Give up this frantic and insane attempt, . .

. . . but of course, it seems most reasonable to you.  It seems like the
way of life to you.  And what you’re being called upon to do seems to be
impossible, simply because it’s been awhile since you practiced it and
thus it’s naturalness and normalcy doesn’t feel natural and normal to
you any more.  And your need to survive is overriding your willingness
to become still and therefore vulnerable, where God’s Love can reach you
and turn the human condition into the divine actuality of you as the Son
of God or the Daughter of God.

Give up this frantic and insane attempt, which cheats you of the joy of
living with your God and Father, and awaking gladly to His Love and
Holiness which join together . . . 

. . . what? . . 

. . . as the truth in you, making you One with Him. 

See, that’s the part you can’t do by yourself.  You must stand with,
along side the Father as you reach out to Him and as you make commitment
to Him.  But as you make commitment to Him, your gift of commitment He
receives and exchanges with His Gift.  And His Gift to you is the
conscious experience of you as His only Son, as His only Daughter, pure,
perfect, invulnerable, which you will experience as one of regeneration
and redemption.

When you have learned how to decide WITH God, . .

. . . not against God anymore, not independent of God.

When you have learned how to decide WITH God, . .

. . . which really means, when you learn to listen to God and hear His
Voice and decide with Him as to what He has said, . .

. . . all decisions become as easy and as right as breathing. There is
no effort, and you will be led as gently as if you were being carried
along a quiet path in summer. Only your own volition seems to make
deciding hard. 

What does that mean, . . Only your own volition?  Well, it simply means,
only your will to have it your way.  Only your insistence upon making up
your own plans . . .

. . . make deciding hard. 

The Father says, “Here is the Truth.”  And you say, “Yes, but . . . yes,
but . . . yes, but . . . yes, but . . . yes, but . . .”  And all the
time you’re saying, “Yes, but,” you’re holding off on deciding with the
Father on what the Father is Being.  And so you delay the experience of
Atonement and you continue the practice of self-righteousness and death
still awaits you.

Only your own volition seems to make deciding hard.

Deciding for yourself is an exercise of your own volition.  

The Holy Spirit . . .

. . . that which is nothing more than your right Mind . . .

. . . will not delay at all in answering your EVERY question what to do.
He KNOWS. And He will TELL you and then . . . 

. . . what? . .

. . . do it FOR you. 

That’s the last straw.  When the Holy Spirit does it for you – you poor
little helpless bastard – that’s really insulting!  I mean, the Holy
Spirit doesn’t tell you the truth so that you as an independent
authorizer can carry it out.  No, because that independent,
self-righteous bastard that wants to do it himself is the very thing
that creates the whole illusion of sin, sickness and death.  

So the ultimate of this is:  That the Holy Spirit will tell you and then
do it for you.  And you will let Him do it, because you want to be
through with sin, sickness and death.

You who are tired might consider whether this is not more restful than
sleep. For you can bring your guilt into sleeping, but not into this. 

And that’s the promise of it:  

. . . you can bring your guilt into sleeping, but not into this. 

And that’s your release.  When you give up the last vestige of a feeling
of a right to engage in an independent activity, the Kingdom is given to
you . . . given to you because it’s your Birthright and not because
you’ve earned it.  

And that is the nature of God’s Love.  That’s the way Atonement works.
It is not impossible.  And I invite you to refer to this section that
we’ve just read, over and over, so as to remind yourself that what seems
to be impossible, must not actually be impossible or you would not have
such clear unequivocal explanation of how to come Home.

I love you very much.  And I look forward to being with you next time.

Chapter 13 – Section: THE WAY OF SALVATION or YOUR FUNCTION IN THE
ATONEMENT Sparkly Book – p.323   /   JCIM – p.135   /   CIMS – p.272
Chapter 13 – Section:  YOUR FUNCTION IN THE ATTONEMENT First Edition  –
p. 259   /    Second Edition – p.279

