---
title: Sept 15, 2013
ref: Discussion ( needs formatting )
---

Okay.  Tonight we will not be going into the Book.  And so before we
begin, let’s take a few moments to be quiet together.

[Quiet time]

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
internet.

How many of you had a difficult week since we last met together?  How
many listened to what I had to say last time and experienced extreme
clarity – understood the utter simplicity of what I was saying,  and
therefore, the utter simplicity of Waking up, of ending the dream, of
ending “the human condition?”

How many, as a result, looked forward to an incredibly different week
from past weeks expecting the clarity to open up vast new doors, or at
the least, an incredibly enhanced daily experience?  And how many of you
diligently and conscientiously reviewed the transcript of the meeting
and did your utmost to bring the principles into play during your day
and found yourself thwarted – found things not transforming, we’ll say,
positively?  

How many of you found that the situations actually seemed to get worse?

Well, it’s not because your clarity was flawed.  It was not because you
misunderstood what you had heard.  But rather, it’s something called
inertia.  

You know what inertia is?  Inertia is the tendency of a body in motion
to continue in that motion.  And you experience it when you’re riding in
the passenger seat of a car and the car is moving straight forward.
Your body is a body in motion moving straight forward.  But if the
driver goes around the curve to the left, you find yourself pressed
against the right-hand door of the car.  And the reason is, that your
body is continuing to move straight forward and the car, moving left, is
getting in the way.  And so you feel yourself pressed into the door of
the car.  Simple . . . easy to understand.

Now, where has the inertia come into play as you have been really,
truly, endeavoring to practice the two-step and engage in the holy
instant and experiencing Guidance – hearing or feeling the impulse or
the direction to act in?  

Well, the inertia is and always will be your thinking.  You’re not used
to not thinking.  And so the tendency to think will persist when you are
engaged in abandoning it.  You see?  

It will persist.  So don’t be surprised.  You will find that in one way
or another, your practice of the holy instant will arouse intellectual
responses – habitual intellectual responses.  “Well I can’t do that!” or
“that doesn’t make sense”  or  “that sounds interesting but I’m not
quite ready to do that” or any part of the “I can’t syndrome.”  

“I can’t do that.  I can’t believe that. I can’t see how that would be
helpful in the slightest.”  And you introduce thinking instead of paying
attention to the Guidance, which is clearly presenting itself.  And then
listening to Guidance as it is presenting itself . . . and then
listening to Guidance as it is presenting itself and not once engaging
in speculative thoughts – doubts, intelligent concerns.

Now, even if you do have an intelligent concern or a doubt, you don’t
have to persist in a straight line.  You can bring that concern or doubt
to your Guidance.  “I don’t see how this can happen.  I can’t do that.
Tell me the truth about it.  I want to know why I can do it.  I want to
know, since You see that this is an appropriate step to take, how that
step is to be accomplished,” because You must be able to see it.”

And so you don’t activate the inertia of the doubt or the concern.  You
use it as a continued reason for not thinking and returning your
attention to the Guidance that can clarify for you how it can be done or
why it is not dangerous.  You see?  The inertia comes as a result of
abandoning listening for Guidance.  It comes as a result of abandoning
listening to the Voice of truth.  It comes as a result of abandoning
your intent to connect with That which is nothing more than your right
Mind – the Holy Spirit.

Now if you will catch the moment in which you’re willing to abandon
listening and re-engage thinking, if you will catch yourself when that
happens, you will find yourself continuing to be released from the
perceptions of yourself and your world that you have been taught, that
you have acquired and that you have placed faith in.

Now as you do that, you will find that what could have ended up being an
impasse, because inertia set in, will demonstrate to you the value of
not valuing your thinking.  And then it will be easier the next time
inertia sets in to abandon the inertia.  

This is a learning process.  And it can be described as becoming
disenchanted with your thinking.  It’s not a happy thing to become
disenchanted with your thinking.  In fact, that can be part of the
inertia to ruminate about, the fact it’s not pleasant.  And therefore,
this can’t possibly be contributive in any way to any positive result.
You see?  There’s the inertia.  

The tendency to continue as you have been gets in the way of being free
of preconditioned patterns, free of habits – mind habits, mental habits
that keep you bound.

Thinking is always based upon the past.  It’s always based on your
experience.  And that’s usually considered good – to be able to base
your actions on experience.  “Oh, he’s had a lot of experience and it
shows in everything thing he does.  He’s excellent in his work and it’s
a result of his experience.”  You see?  But I’m going to tell you
something:  Your experience has always been colored by or based in
learning that reflects not being joined with your right Mind. 

Your experience in the world, in life as its generally perceived, is a
result of being conscious of events without realizing that they have a
connection with God – with a Prime Mover of pure intelligence.  Not only
that, that the Prime Mover acts always in the “Now.”  And therefore, the
experience is always brand new and never based upon the past.

Without that conscious awareness, the Reality of what one is
experiencing is lost.  And what one is left with is illusion, is memory
imbued with, colored with nothing but misunderstanding and
misperception.  

You see, becoming disenchanted with your thinking means something
significant.  And you end up in your disenchantment with your thinking
in a place where you can experience no self-appreciation because of your
thinking, something which for most every one of you has been a source of
pride and has lent you credibility and recognition.  Oh yes, he, she,
you have quite a bit of experience and it shows and you’re to be honored
and you’re to be respected because you don’t base things on your
imagination but rather on your experience.

Now it’s time for the word “experience” to mean something new.  It’s
time for the word “experience” to mean what happens when you’re in the
silence and you are not asserting a personal private intent or sense of
self.  And in the absence of a sense of self, but the presence of Mind
that you Are, truth is revealed to you.   Clarity comes, behavior arises
out of it, not out of your best thinking, not out of your best judgment,
not out of your vast experience.  

And that behavior arising out of the absence of personal private
self-assertion, provides you with an experience of what your right Mind
truly is: the Holy Spirit, the Presence of the Mind of God Being all
there is to the Presence of Mind that you Are.  

New identity is revealed to you, which is really your original identity
and your only identity.  But it’s an identity that has been covered over
by your thinking, coupled with the idea – the radical and crazy idea –
that you are a free agent, an agent with a capacity to enact things, to
be a “cause.”

That’s where the problem lies.  And the solution to it lies in the
practice of the holy instant and the successful disenchantment with your
thinking.  To the point where you no longer give preference to your
thinking, but you give your preference to persistent listening,
persistent joining with That which is nothing more than your right Mind,
which just happens to be the Holy Spirit.  You see?

It’s all right for your thinking to become meaningless.  It’s all right
for you not to know the answer.  It’s all right not to have the foggiest
idea of what to do, if in the absence of a foggy idea you are
consciously paying attention with curiosity to know what the truth is
that you’re not presently aware of and which isn’t presently defined by
your best or worst thinking.

It’s no wonder that it has taken so long for so many to Awaken.  It’s
not a very appealing prospect from the current perspective, which tends
to continue to be the perspective even when the intent to change
perspective comes into play.  Because when the changed perspective
occurs, you experience resistance to it because you tend to not abandon
your current habits.  That’s the only reason.  You tend to resist
abandoning your current habits, your current mindsets, your current
mutual agreements . . . and the promises from everyone that, if you
agree to this or that or the other thing, they will provide you with
some goodies, some appreciation, some recognition, some acknowledgement
of your worth.  You see?  

You have to let go of those things in order for inertia not to prevail.
You really need to become like a little child.  You need to be glad to
abandon your preconceptions.  Oh, [chuckles] and as many of you know,
you can have preconceptions about something you’ve never heard about or
thought about before.  You begin to open up to spiritual things.  You
begin to open up to the Bible, A Course In Miracles – inner, honest
inquiry of that which is outside the box.  And you find out that you can
expect healing.  And you pursue it and you experience healing, except
that it seems to be gradual.  And it doesn’t take very long for you to
discover that you have a concept about that.  “Well, if this is truly
spiritual healing it’s not going to take awhile.  If it is truly
spiritual healing, if God has anything to do with it, it’s going to be
instantaneous.”  

Now where did that come from?  How is it that you have this concept when
the genuine idea of being able to experience healing was something you
never thought about before?  

I will tell you:  The private sense of self protects what it calls “its
integrity” – keeps its boundaries clear by virtue of having concepts.
Concepts provide the structure to what we’ll call “your ego.”  And
because the ego is nothing more than a defense mechanism, concepts are
the tool – the tools that the ego uses to protect itself.  And it has
the capacity to provide opinions about something that you’ve only just
discovered.  It is as though the opinion has been waiting in secret for
the opportunity to present itself, even though it hasn’t.  You see?

It can be tricky, it can be sticky, it can seem to be complicated, but
only if you’re willing to be affected by inertia, only if you are
insistent upon continuing to practice thinking – thinking based upon the
past, thinking based upon perceptions arrived at through nothing more
than ignorance . . . perceptions arrived at only in the absence of a
conscious connection with one’s Source, one’s true Source and therefore,
without the conscious awareness of your own divinity that is and always
has been outside of the box.  Inertia keeps you in the box.  It’s that
simple.  

What gets you out of the box, what gets you out of inertia is to listen
for Guidance, desire of the Father or the Holy Spirit to Know what the
God’s honest truth is, what the truth is from the Father’s Perspective
of His perfect Creation and to listen for it and let it in.  And then no
matter what form inertia takes to distract you and to get you to think
about it, or to think against it, or whatever, continue to ask, “Father,
Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?  Father, I’m experiencing a doubt.
What is the truth that eradicates the doubt?  I don’t want to magnify
the doubt.  I don’t want to emphasize the inertia.  Father, what is the
truth that negates the inertia?”  And do it, and do it, and do it
because the only alternative you have is to think about it, and that
will keep you bound, that will prohibit healing, that will prohibit
revelation.

If things seem to get worse, ask, “Father, what is the truth that
invalidates, proves to be unreal, the worsening of the situation?”
Don’t ask the Father what’s causing the worsening of the situation.
Always your inquiry in the holy instant has to do with your wishing to
abandon your perspective in favor of the Father’s Perspective about
whatever it is you’re confused.

Remember, the only thing going on is Reality.  The only thing going on
is the Kingdom of Heaven.  And if you’re seeing anything different from
that, you’re seeing a misperception.  Understanding the misperception
won’t help a thing, when all you need to do is to abandon it with the
Father’s help or the Holy Spirit’s help as They reveal to you that part
of the Kingdom of Heaven that you were seeing unclearly and showing it
to you in Its totality as the spiritual original of what you were seeing
unclearly.  You see?

Persistence is now what is called for.  Don’t be taken in by the
experienced of inertia.  And as you begin to realize that your thinking
is your own worst enemy – you’re not your own worst enemy – but when you
realize that your thinking is your own worst enemy, well, if you want to
be sad about it, go ahead and be sad about it, but just for a moment.
It accomplishes nothing.  And then abandon the sadness and get on with
the joy of clarity.  You see?

Don’t be afraid to be present in your daily experience during this
coming week.  And if it doesn’t seem to show the promise that I’ve been
describing or that you can even clearly see and feel is a real promise,
notice that somewhere in there you started thinking.  You had an opinion
that was at odds with, that disagreed with clarity that was forthcoming,
or that came into play before the clarity had a chance to register with
you.  And look at that and see how impractical and useless it was for
you to engage in it, so that you can see that it’s something you don’t
wish to employ and you will let go of it spontaneously.  

Just realize what the culprit is.  The culprit isn’t that what I’ve been
telling you isn’t true and doesn’t work.  The culprit is that inertia,
the tendency to remain with your current mindset and perspective blocks
the influx of the experience that will prove the thinking false and make
it obviously unattractive and worthless.  When that happens you don’t
even have to throw it out, it will fall away from you because you will
find no interest in it and you will not value it in any way.  And
nothing stays in your experience that you find valueless.  That’s a
promise.  That’s a fact.

This is a simple lesson tonight, but a very significant lesson.  It’s
very single pointed.  And I’m going to leave it that way so that there’s
no chance to become befuddled about it.  

It’s your Birthright to be Awake.  You are already the holy Son or
Daughter of God.  And I’m here to promote your experience of It, by
creating clarity rather than adding confusion.

I love you very much and I look forward to being with you next time.

Raj did not read from the Course tonight
