---
title: Oct 27, 2013
ref: T11.7 The Guide for Miracles ( needs formatting )
---

  Good evening . . . or since we have started so late, good morning.
And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the internet.

Tonight, we’re going to be talking about Love.  

The Bible quotes me as saying, “As I have loved you, love one another.”1 

How have I loved you?  With patience . . . with inspiration . . . with
long-suffering . . . and with persistence.  

The other things, the first things I mentioned are relatively easy to
do.  But the last one – the persistence – is the one most everyone gets
hung up on and has the most difficulty with.

Now what is Love?  Love is looking into your brother’s eyes.  There it
is – that relationship, that involvement – looking into your brother’s
eyes and remembering God.  It isn’t looking into your brother’s eyes and
getting frustrated with him because of how crazy he is or how
inconsistent he is or how hateful he is or how careless he is or how he
screwed you over a year ago.  Mind you, all of those things will tend to
get in the way, but the function is that of looking into your brother’s
eyes and remembering God.

Now this is not a new subject.  But the tendency to be distracted from
this familiar subject occurs frequently with everyone.  And the
necessity is to find a way to no longer be distracted from being the
Presence of Love – from wishing to be the Presence of Love and wishing
to see the Presence of Love.

Now, in the Course it says:

Do the Holy Spirit’s work because, you SHARE in His function.2

Not surprising considering the fact that the Holy Spirit is nothing more
than your right Mind, of course you SHARE in His function.

As your function in heaven is creation, so your function on earth . . .

. . . is what?

. . . healing.

Healing is the evidence of Love, the evidence of looking into your
brother’s eyes and resolutely, patiently, persistently remembering God.

God shares His function with you in Heaven, . .

. . . that’s the function of Creation.  

. . . and the Holy Spirit shares His with you on earth.

And His is healing.

When you faithfully fulfill your function of remembering God when you
look at your brother or sister or any aspect of your world, your mind is
whole – healed – and that wholeness blesses you and your brother
together.

“Oh-h, but my brother’s not worth it!  He’s not worth the effort it will
take me.”  Yes, but is your clarity worth having?  Is your peace worth
having?  Is your recognition of your brother’s divinity, which will
override all of the justifications you have for not wanting to put forth
the effort, worth having?

I realize that sounds sort of selfish but there’s nothing selfish about
wanting to be sane – to be of single Mind – not to be conflicted and in
a state of war within yourself, where you’re maintaining that which
cannot possibly heal you or your brother.

You know, if healing isn’t occurring, it’s because you think there is
some other alternative.  Oh yes, your brother must be willing to be
healed!  What’s the old joke, “How many psychiatrists does it take to
change a light-bulb?”

I’m sorry, I forgot . . . this is Paul . . . I’ve lost the track there .
. .

Raj:  There are all kinds of excuses that can arise that will seem to
justify abandoning the willingness to look into your brother’s eyes and
remember God.  One is, that he doesn’t want to change, another is, that
his will is stronger than yours and you can’t possibly succeed, or you
lack the persistence or clarity to be able to follow through and become
single of purpose, even though it is fully your intent to Wake up, to
engage in the holy instant, to listen for the Holy Spirit’s Guidance.

You see, if healing isn’t occurring it’s because you are not single of
mind yet.  

Nothing else will heal but Love.  Any other means you try to employ to
correct a situation that calls for correction will not heal.  You can
try being kind.  You can try being nice.  You can try being loving,
whatever the current definition of loving might be at any given moment.
But when you do any of those things without being joined with That which
is your right Mind – the Holy Spirit – will be nothing but a rehearsal
of an act devoid of the Meaning of being infilled with the Father’s
Love, which has been revealed to you by the Holy Spirit and which
renders your behavior divinely Meaningful and therefore, healing.

So there is no alternative to persistence.  

“Oh-h, but I’ve been loving.  I’ve been asking the Holy Spirit over and
over and over and the situation has only gotten worse.  I must be doing
something wrong.”

In fact, most of the explanations you will come up with will be brought
up by your ego and will be at your expense.  And I will simply
discourage you further until you finally hit the bottom of the barrel
and you genuinely let go.  And you genuinely with all of your heart and
with all of your humility ask the Father, “What is the truth here?   How
can I see my brother as the holy Son of God and not as what I’ve thought
he was, not what I am convinced he is.  Father, I acknowledge that my
perspective is not healing and cannot be healing because I’m not joined
with you.  And I am going to join with you steadfastly without
interruption because I no longer believe that there’s any other
alternative, viable or unviable, real or unreal.”

It is sometimes agonizing to try to be the presence of That which heals.
And it makes you self-conscious, as I’ve said before, in a negative way
– self depreciating.  But the necessity is to forget about yourself and
give your attention to your brother, knowing, even if its intellectual
knowing, that right there where the bastard is, is a holy Son of God who
couldn’t appear to be a bastard if God wasn’t right there being what
that brother truly is, in spite of what he thinks he is and in spite of
what you might believe he is.

And you are going to stand with that with commitment.  Patience is
recognizable as Love when nothing else is being employed.  And no other
options are being held behind your back, just in case loving doesn’t
work.

As I have loved you, love one another.  Love one another . . . love one
another . . . love one another.  Let those words ring, let them echo
through your day.  Love one another . . . love one another . . . love
one another.  That’s what you are here for.

As your function in Heaven is creation, so your function on earth is
healing.

Love one another.  In the process be intelligent, being the Presence of
Love does not mean becoming stupid.  It doesn’t mean overlooking what
needs correction and letting bad behavior continue – letting what needs
to be healed continue.

And so use intelligence so that you are not abused in the name of Love
while you are persisting in love.  This is important.

Love one another . . . love one another . . . love one another.  Love
one another enough not to allow what stands in the way of healing to
persist, such as abuse or bad behavior.  But remember this:  When the
Love that you are being the expression of is rejected, when it is not
received, it doesn’t mean that you have to bring something else into
play, such as coercion or force or logic or any other method of
manipulation, like anger or fear.  There are no options to love.  There
are no alternatives to love.

If you have allowed yourself to be used in the process of your extending
love, be Love enough to say, “No!” without anger, without emotion,
without all of the results of the fear that love will not be enough.  

Sometimes working out problems is very laborious.   I mean that when you
are consistently and persistently employing the two-step and practicing
the holy instant and things seem to get very complicated because you’re
able to interpret all of the factors that are coming into play to make
it difficult.  But here’s the one factor that is the only factor making
it difficult, and that is, that you have been hoodwinked into believing
that there is an alternative to loving your brother as I have loved you.
And that one divisive thought has split your mind, and of course, that
is the definition of conflict.  

And the answer is not the manipulation or the coercion of your brother
or sister, but the bringing of your mind back into alignment with the
one and only thing that heals:  Love . . . and refusing to abandon it –
I was going to say, no matter what.  And yet that involves an assertion
of will, “No matter what, I’m not going to do this.”  No, that’s not it.
You want to do it without interruption because you know that there’s
nothing else that works. 

This doesn’t take force then or coercion.  It takes the steadfast
turning of your attention to the Father, “Father, what is the truth
here?” or, “Holy Spirit, what is the truth here?  Help me see what my
function is on earth in terms of healing here, because together that is
our function here.  And you know what?  I want to Wake up.  And I do not
want to continue in the dream of suffering.  And so, I will persist in
finding the way to be the Presence of Love, because I find no value in
anything else.  

“Help me . . . help me!  Help me love my brother.  Help me do what puts
me in the position of being the unconflicted Presence of That which
heals, of That which is Whole, of That which is the presence of harmony
that flows freely from me to everything, in recognition of the Father in
it. 

“I do not want to be conflicted, and I no longer want to believe that my
brother is making me be conflicted.  I want to remember that the only
thing that works is Love.  And I want You to help me Father, or Holy
Spirit.  I want You to help me experience Love and remain steadfastly in
It with patience and gentleness . . . with fearlessness.”

No matter how complicated things seem to get, no matter how many endless
strings of spaghetti there seem to be, the answer is always simple:
Abandon the spaghetti.  Turn your attention to the Father or the Holy
Spirit.  Have one goal:  To remember how to be willing to be the avenue
through which Love finds expression and make no room for anything else
to find its way into expression through you.

Love is the Answer, and Love is the Royal way.  Hold steadfastly to this
truth and don’t become discouraged when it doesn’t seem to be doing any
good . . . because it’s the only thing that does heal.

Remember this and you will not take any useless side trips away from the
singular intent of finding God in your brother’s eyes. 

I love you very much with singleness of vision, singleness of purpose,
persistence, commitment.  And as I am loving you, love one another.
It’s the Answer.

I look forward to being with you next time.

1John 13:34 2Sparkly Book – p.272 The very Last Line In the other
Editions it is found in: Chapter 11 – Section:  THE GUIDE FOR MIRACLES
The end of the 4th Paragraph

