---
chapter: Twenty Five
ctitle: The Remedy
title: The Principle of Salvation
ref: T25.8
---

The Holy Spirit can use all that you give to Him for your salvation. But
He cannot use what you withhold, for He cannot take it from you without
your willingness. For if He did, you would believe He wrested it from
you against your will. And so you would not learn it IS your will to be
without it. You need not give it to Him wholly willingly, for if you
could, you had no need of Him. But this He needs; that you prefer He
take it than that you keep it for yourself alone, and recognize that
what brings loss to no-one you would not know. This much is necessary to
add to the idea no-one can lose for you to gain. And nothing more.

Here is the only principle salvation needs. Nor is it necessary that
your faith in it be strong, unswerving, and without attack from all
beliefs opposed to it. You HAVE no fixed allegiance. But remember
salvation is not needed by the saved. You are not called upon to do what
one divided still against himself would find impossible. Have little
faith that wisdom could be found in such a state of mind. But be you
thankful that only little faith is ASKED of you. What BUT a little faith
remains to those who still believe in sin? What could they know of
Heaven and the justice of the saved?

There is a kind of justice in salvation of which the world knows
nothing. To the world, justice and VENGEANCE are the same, for sinners
see justice only as their punishment, perhaps sustained by someone else,
but not escaped. The laws of sin DEMAND a victim. Who it may be makes
little difference. But death must be the cost and must be paid. This is
not justice, but insanity. Yet how could justice be defined without
insanity where love means hate, and death is seen as victory and triumph
over eternity and timelessness and life?

You who know not of justice still can ask, and learn the answer. Justice
looks on all in the same way. It is not just that one should lack for
what another has. For that is vengeance in whatever form it takes.
Justice demands NO sacrifice, for any sacrifice is made that sin may be
preserved and kept. It is a payment offered for the cost of sin, but not
the total cost. The rest is taken from another, to be laid beside your
little payment, to “atone” for all that you would keep, and not give up.
So is the victim seen as partly you, with someone else by far the
greater part. And in the total cost, the greater his the less is yours.
And justice, being blind, is satisfied by being paid, it matters not by
whom. Can this BE justice? God knows not of this. But justice DOES He
know, and knows it well. For He is wholly fair to everyone.

Vengeance is alien to God’s Mind BECAUSE He knows of justice. To be just
is to be fair, and NOT be vengeful. Fairness and vengeance are
impossible, for each one contradicts the other and denies that it is
real. It is impossible for you to share the Holy Spirit’s justice with a
mind that can conceive of specialness at all. Yet how could He be just
if He condemns a sinner for the crimes he did not do, but THINKS he did?
And where would justice be if He demanded of the ones obsessed with the
idea of punishment that they lay it aside, unaided, and perceive it is
not true? It is extremely hard for those who still believe sin
meaningful to understand the Holy Spirit’s justice.

They MUST believe He shares their own confusion, and cannot avoid the
vengeance that their own belief in justice must entail. And so they fear
the Holy Spirit, and perceive the “wrath” of God in Him. Nor can they
trust Him not to strike them dead with lightening bolts torn from the
“fires” of Heaven by God’s Own angry hand. They DO believe that Heaven
is hell and ARE afraid of love. And deep suspicion and the chill of fear
comes over them when they are told that they have never sinned. Their
world depends on sin’s stability. And they perceive the “threat” of what
God knows as justice to be more destructive to themselves and to their
world than vengeance, which they understand and love.

So do they think the loss of sin a curse. And flee the Holy Spirit as if
He were a messenger from hell, sent from above, in treachery and guile,
to work God’s vengeance on them in the guise of a deliverer and friend.
What could He be to them except a devil dressed to deceive, within an
angel’s cloak. And what escape has He for them except a door to hell
that seems to look like Heaven’s gate?

Yet justice cannot punish those who ask for punishment, but have a Judge
Who knows that they are wholly innocent in truth. In justice, He is
bound to set them free, and give them all the honor they deserve, and
have denied themselves because they are not fair, and cannot understand
that they are innocent. Love is not understandable to sinners because
they think that justice is split off from love, and stands for something
else.

And thus is love perceived as weak, and vengeance strong. For love has
LOST when judgement left its side, and is too weak to save from
punishment. But vengeance without love has GAINED in strength by being
separate and apart from love. And what but vengeance now can help and
save, while love stands feebly by, with helpless hands, bereft of
justice and vitality, and powerless to save? What can Love ask of you
who think that all of this is true? Could He, in justice and in love
believe, in your confusion, you have much to give? You are not asked to
trust Him far. No further than what you see He offers you, and what you
recognize you could not give yourself.

In God’s Own justice does He recognize all you deserve, but understands
as well that you cannot accept it for yourself. It is His special
function to hold out to you the gifts the innocent DESERVE. And every
one that you accept brings joy to Him as well as you. He knows that
Heaven is richer made by each one you accept. And God rejoices as His
Son receives what loving justice knows to be his due. For love and
justice are NOT different. BECAUSE they are the same does mercy stand at
God’s right Hand, and gives the Son of God the power to forgive HIMSELF
of sin.

To him who merits everything, how can it be that anything be kept from
him? For that would be injustice, and unfair indeed to all the holiness
that is in him, however much he recognize it not. God knows of no
injustice. He would not allow His Son be judged by those who seek his
death, and could not see his worth at all. What honest witnesses could
they call forth, to speak on his behalf? And who would come to plead for
him, and not against his life? No justice would be given him by you. Yet
God ensured that justice WOULD be done unto the Son He loves, and would
protect from all unfairness you might seek to offer, believing vengeance
IS his proper due.

As specialness cares not who pays the cost of sin, so it be paid,
the Holy Spirit heeds not who looks on innocence at last, provided it is
seen and recognized. For just ONE witness is enough, if he sees truly.
Simple justice asks no more. Of each one does the Holy Spirit ask if he
will be that one, so justice may return to love, and there be satisfied.
Each special function He allots is but for this; that each one learn
that love and justice are not separate. And both are strengthened by
their union with each other. Without love is justice prejudiced and
weak. And love without justice is impossible. For love is fair, and
cannot chasten without cause. What cause can BE to warrant an attack
upon the innocent? In justice, then, does love correct mistakes, but not
in vengeance. For that would be unjust to innocence.

You can be perfect witness to the power of love AND justice, if you
understand it is impossible the Son of God could merit vengeance. You
need not perceive, in every circumstance, that this is true. Nor need
you look to your experience within the world, which is but shadows of
all that is REALLY happening within yourself. The understanding which
you need comes not of you, but from a larger Self, so great and holy
that He could not doubt His innocence. Your special function is a call to
Him, that He may smile on you whose sinlessness He shares. HIS
understanding will be YOURS. And so the Holy Spirit’s special function
has been fulfilled. God’s Son has found a witness unto his sinlessness,
and not his sin. How little need you give the Holy Spirit, that simple
justice may be given you!

Without impartiality there is no justice. How can specialness be just?
Judge not because you cannot, not because you are a miserable sinner,
too. How can the special REALLY understand that justice is the same for
everyone? To take from one to give another must be an injustice to them
both, since they are equal in the Holy Spirit’s sight. Their Father gave
the same inheritance to both. Who would have more or less is not aware
that he has everything. He is no judge of what must be another’s due,
because he thinks HE is deprived. And so must he be envious, and try to
take away from whom he judges. He is not impartial, and cannot fairly
see another’s rights because his own have been obscured to him.

You have the RIGHT to all the universe; to perfect peace, complete
deliverance from all effects of sin, and to the life eternal, joyous and
complete in every way, as God appointed for His holy
Son. This is the only justice Heaven knows, and all the Holy Spirit
brings to earth. Your special function shows you nothing else but
perfect justice CAN prevail for you. And you are safe from vengeance in
all forms. The world deceives, but it cannot replace God’s justice with
a version of its own. For only love IS just, and CAN perceive what
justice must accord the Son of God. Let love decide, and never fear that
you, in your unfairness, will deprive yourself of what God’s justice has
allotted you.

