---
chapter: Twenty Five
ctitle: The Remedy
title: Commuting the Sentence
ref: T25.7
---

And if the Holy Spirit can commute each sentence that you laid upon
yourself into a blessing, then it cannot be a sin. Sin is the one thing
in all the world that CANNOT change. It is immutable. And on its
changelessness the world depends. The magic of the world can seem to
hide the pain of sin from sinners, and deceive with glitter and with
guile. Yet each one knows the cost of sin is death. And so it IS. For sin
is a REQUEST for death, a wish to make this world’s foundation sure as
love, dependable as Heaven, and as strong as God Himself. The world IS
safe from love to everyone who thinks sin possible. Nor WILL it
change. Yet IS it possible what God created not should share the
attributes of His creation, when it opposes it in every way?

It CANNOT be the “sinner’s” wish for death is just as strong as is God’s
Will for life. Nor can the basis of a world He did not make be firm and
sure as Heaven. How could it be that hell and Heaven are the same? And
is it possible that what He did not will cannot be changed? What is
immutable besides His Will? And what can share Its attributes except
Itself? What wish can rise against His Will, and be immutable? If you
could realize NOTHING is changeless but the
Will of God, this course would not be difficult for you. For it is this
that you do not believe. Yet there is nothing else you COULD believe, if
you but looked at what it really is.

Let us go back to what we said before, and think of it more carefully.
It must be so that either God is mad, or is this world a place of
madness. Not one Thought of His makes any sense at all within this
world. And nothing that the world believes as true has any meaning in
His Mind at all. What makes no sense and has no meaning IS insanity. And
what is madness CANNOT be the truth. If one belief so deeply valued here
were true, then every Thought God ever had is an illusion. And if but
one Thought of His is true, then all beliefs the world gives any meaning
to are false, and make no sense at all. This IS the choice you make. Do
not attempt to see it differently, nor twist it into something it is
not. For only this decision CAN you make. The rest is up to God, and not
to you.

To justify one value that the world upholds is to deny your Father’s
sanity and YOURS. For God and His beloved Son do not think differently.
And it is the agreement of their thought that makes the Son a co-creator
with the Mind Whose Thought created him. And if he chooses to believe
one thought opposed to truth, he has decided he is not his Father’s Son
because the Son is mad, and sanity must lie apart from both the Father
AND the Son. This you BELIEVE. Think not that this belief depends upon
the form it takes. Who thinks the world is sane in ANY way, is justified
in ANYTHING it thinks, or is maintained by ANY form of reason, believes
this to be true. Sin is not real BECAUSE the Father and the Son are not
insane. This world is meaningless BECAUSE it rests on sin. Who could
create the changeless, if it does not rest on truth?

The Holy Spirit has the power to change the whole foundation of the
world you see to something else; a basis not insane, on which a sane
perception can be based, another world perceived. And one in which
nothing is contradicted that would lead the Son of God to sanity and
joy. Nothing attests to death and cruelty, to separation and to
differences. For here is everything perceived as one, and no-one loses
that each one may gain.

Test everything that you believe against this ONE requirement. And
understand that everything that meets this one demand is
worthy of your faith. But nothing else. What is not love is sin, and
either one perceives the other as insane and meaningless. Love is the
basis for a world perceived as wholly mad to sinners, who believe theirs
is the way to sanity. But sin is equally insane within the sight of
love, whose gentle eyes would look beyond the madness, and rest
peacefully on truth. Each sees a world immutable, as each defines the
changeless and eternal truth of what you are. And each reflects a view
of what the Father and the Son must be, to make that viewpoint
meaningful and sane.

Your special function is the special form in which the fact that God is
not insane appears most sensible and meaningful to you. The content is
the same. The form is suited to your special needs, and to the special
time and place in which you think you find yourself, and where you can
be free of place and time, and all that you believe must limit you. The
Son of God cannot be bound by time nor place, nor anything God did not
will. Yet if His Will is seen as madness, then the form of sanity which
makes it most acceptable to those who are insane requires special
choice. Nor can this choice be made BY the insane, whose problem is
their choices are not free, and made with reason in the light of sense.

It WOULD be madness to entrust salvation to the insane. Because He is
NOT mad has God appointed One as sane as He to raise a saner world to
meet the sight of everyone who chose insanity as his salvation. To this
One is given the choice of form most suitable to him; one which will not
attack the world he sees, but enter into it in quietness, and SHOW him
he is mad. This One but points to an alternative, ANOTHER way of looking
at what he has seen before, and recognizes as the world in which he
lives, and thought he understood before.

Now MUST he question this, because the form of the alternative is one
which he cannot deny, nor overlook, nor fail completely to perceive at
all. To each his special function is designed to be perceived as
possible, and more and more desired, as it PROVES to him that it is an
alternative he really WANTS. From this position does his sinfulness, and
all the sin he sees within the world, offer him less and less. Until he
comes to understand it COST him his sanity, and stands between him and
whatever hope he has of BEING sane.  Nor is he left without escape from
madness, for he has a special part in everyone’s escape. He can no more
be left outside, without a special function in the hope of peace, than
could the Father overlook His Son, and pass him by in careless
thoughtlessness.

What is dependable EXCEPT God’s Love? And where does sanity abide EXCEPT
in Him? The One Who speaks for Him can show you this, in the alternative
He chose especially for you. It is God’s Will that you remember this,
and so emerge from deepest mourning into perfect joy. Accept the
function that has been assigned to you in God’s Own plan to show His
Sons that hell and Heaven are different, NOT the same. And that in
Heaven THEY are all the same, without the differences which would have
made a hell of Heaven and a heaven of hell, had such insanity been
possible.

The whole belief that someone loses but reflects the underlying tenet
God must be insane. For in this world it seems that one must gain
BECAUSE another lost. If THIS were true, then God is mad indeed! But
what is this belief except a form of the more basic tenet, “Sin is real,
and rules the world”? For every little gain must someone lose, and pay
exact amount in blood and suffering. For otherwise would evil triumph,
and destruction be the total cost of any gain at all. You who believe
that God is mad, look carefully at this, and understand that it must be
that either God or THIS must be insane, but hardly both.

Salvation is rebirth of the idea no-one CAN lose for anyone to gain. And
everyone MUST gain, if anyone would be a gainer. Here is sanity
restored. And on this single rock of truth can faith in God’s eternal
saneness rest in perfect confidence and perfect peace. Reason is
satisfied, for all insane beliefs can be corrected here. And sin MUST be
impossible, if THIS is true. This is the rock on which salvation rests,
the vantage point from which the Holy Spirit gives meaning and direction
to the plan in which your special function has a part. For here your
special function is made whole because it shares the FUNCTION of the
whole.

Remember all temptation is but this; a mad belief that God’s insanity
would make you sane, and give you what you want. That either God or you
must lose to madness because your aims can NOT be reconciled. Death
demands life, but life is not maintained at any
cost. No-one can suffer for the Will of God to be fulfilled. Salvation
is His Will BECAUSE you share it. Not for you alone, but for the Self
which is the Son of God. He CANNOT lose, for if he could, the loss would
be his Father’s, and in Him no loss is possible. And this is sane
BECAUSE it is the truth.

