---
chapter: Twenty Five
ctitle: The Remedy
title: The Special Function
ref: T25.6
---

The grace of God rests gently on forgiving eyes, and everything they
look on speaks of Him to the beholder. He can see no evil; nothing in
the world to fear, and no-one who is different from himself. And as he
loves them, so he looks upon himself with love and gentleness. He would
no more condemn himself for his mistakes than damn another. He is not an
arbiter of vengeance, nor a punisher of sin. The kindness of his sight
rests on himself with all the tenderness it offers others. For he would
only heal and only bless. And being in accord with what God wills, he
has the power to heal and bless all those he looks on with the grace of
God upon his sight.

Eyes become used to darkness, and the light of brilliant day
seems painful to the eyes grown long accustomed to the dim effects
perceived at twilight. And they turn away from sunlight, and the clarity
it brings to what they look upon. Dimness seems better; easier to see,
and better recognized. Somehow, the vague and more obscure seems easier
to look upon; less painful to the eyes than what is wholly clear and
unambiguous. Yet this is not what eyes are FOR. And who can say that he
prefers the darkness, and maintain he WANTS to see? The WISH to see
calls down the grace of God upon your eyes, and brings the gift of light
that makes sight possible.

Will you behold your brother? God is glad to have you look on him. He
does not will your Savior be unrecognized by you. Nor does He will that
he remain without the function that He gave to him. Let him no more be
lonely, for the lonely ones are those who see no function in the world
for them to fill; no place where they are needed, and no aim which only
they can perfectly fulfill.

Such is the Holy Spirit’s kind perception of specialness; His use of
what you made, to heal instead of harm. To each He gives a special
function in salvation he alone can fill; a part for only him. Nor is the
plan complete until he finds his special function, and fulfills the part
assigned to him, to make himself complete within a world where
incompletion rules.

Here, where the laws of God do not prevail in perfect form, can he yet
do ONE perfect thing, and make ONE perfect choice. And by this act of
special faithfulness to one perceived as other than himself, he learns
the gift was given to himself, and so they MUST be one. Forgiveness is
the only function meaningful in time. It is the means the Holy Spirit
uses to translate specialness from sin into salvation. Forgiveness is
for all. But when it rests on all it is complete, and every function of
this world completed with it. Then is time no more.

Yet while in time, there is still much to do. And each must do what is
allotted him, for on his part does ALL the plan depend. He HAS a special
part in time, for so he chose, and choosing it, he made it for himself.
His wish was not denied, but changed in form, to let it serve his
brother AND himself, and thus become a means to save instead of lose.
Salvation is no more than a reminder this world is not your home; its
laws are not imposed on you, its values are not yours. And this is seen
and understood as each one takes his part in its undoing, as he did in
making it. He has the means for either, as he always did. The specialness
he chose to hurt himself did God appoint to be the means for his
salvation, from the very instant that the choice was made. His special
sin was made his special grace. His special hate became his special
love.

The Holy Spirit NEEDS your special function, that His may be
fulfilled. Think not you lack a special value here. You wanted it, and it
IS given you. All that you made can serve salvation easily and well. The
Son of God can make no choice the Holy Spirit cannot employ on his
behalf, and NOT against himself. Only in darkness does your specialness
appear to be attack. In light, you see it as your SPECIAL FUNCTION in
the plan to save the Son of God from ALL attack, and let him understand
that he is safe, as he has always been, and will remain in time and in
eternity alike. This is the function given each of you for one
another. Take it gently, then, from one another’s hand, and let salvation
be perfectly fulfilled in both of you. Do this ONE thing, that
everything be given you.

