---
chapter: Twenty Five
ctitle: The Remedy
title: The Savior from the Dar
ref: T25.2
---

Is it not evident that what the body’s eyes perceive fills you with
fear? Perhaps you think you find a hope of satisfaction there. Perhaps
you fancy to attain some peace and satisfaction in the world as you
perceive it. Yet it must be evident the outcome does not change. Despite
your hopes and fancies, ALWAYS does despair result. And there is no
exception, nor will there ever be. The only value that the past can hold
is that you learn it gave you no rewards which you would want to keep.
For only thus will you be willing to relinquish it, and have it gone
forever.

Is it not strange that you should cherish still some hope of
satisfaction from the world you see? In no respect, at any time or
place, has anything but fear and guilt been your reward. How long is
needed for you to realize the chance of change in THIS respect is hardly
worth delaying change that might result in better outcome? For one thing
is sure; the way you see, and long have seen, gives no support to base
your future hopes, and no suggestions of success at all. To place your
hopes where no hope lies MUST make you hopeless. Yet is this
hopelessness your choice, while you would seek for hope where none is
ever found.

Is it not also true that you have found some hope APART from this; some
glimmering, inconstant, wavering, yet dimly seen, that hopefulness is
warranted on grounds that are not in this world? And yet your hope that
they may still be here prevents you still from giving up the hopeless
and unrewarding task you set yourself. Can it make sense to hold the
fixed belief that there is reason to uphold pursuit of what has always
failed on grounds that it will suddenly succeed, and bring what it has
never brought before?

Its past HAS failed. Be glad that it is gone within your mind, to darken
what is there. Take not the form for content, for the form is but a
MEANS for content. And the frame is but a means to hold the picture up,
so that it can be seen. A frame that hides the picture has no purpose.
It cannot BE a frame if it is what you see. Without the picture is the
frame without its meaning. Its PURPOSE is to set the picture off, and
not itself.

Who hangs an empty frame upon a wall, and stands before it, deep in
reverence, as if a masterpiece were there to see? Yet if you see
your brother as a body, it IS but this you do. The masterpiece that God
has set within this frame is all there is to see. The body holds it for
a while, without obscuring it in any way. Yet what God has created needs
no frame, for what He has created He supports, and frames within
Himself. His masterpiece He offers you to see. And would you rather see
the frame INSTEAD of this? And see the picture not at all?

The Holy Spirit is the frame God set around the part of Him that you
would see as separate. Yet its frame is joined to its Creator, one with
Him and with His masterpiece. This is its purpose, and you do not make
the frame into the picture when you choose to see it in its place. The
frame that God has given it but serves His purpose, not yours apart from
His. It is your SEPARATE purpose that obscures the picture, and
cherishes the frame instead of it. Yet God has set His masterpiece
within a frame that will endure forever, when yours has crumbled into
dust. But think you not the picture is destroyed in any way. What God
creates is safe from all corruption, unchanged and perfect in eternity.

Accept God’s frame instead of yours, and you will see the masterpiece.
Look at its loveliness, and understand the Mind that thought it, not in
flesh and bones, but in a frame as lovely as Itself. Its holiness lights
up the sinlessness the frame of darkness hides, and casts a veil of
light across the picture’s face, which but reflects the light that
shines from it to its Creator. Think not this face was ever darkened
because you saw it in a frame of death. God kept it safe that you might
look on it, and see the holiness that He has given it.

Within the darkness see the Savior FROM the dark, and understand your
brother as his Father’s Mind shows him to you. He will step forth from
darkness as you look on him, and you will see the dark no more. The
darkness touched him not, nor you who brought him forth for you to look
upon. His sinlessness but pictures yours. His gentleness becomes your
strength, and both will gladly look within, and see the holiness that
must be there BECAUSE of what you looked upon in him. He is the frame in
which your holiness is set, and what God gave him must be given you.
However much he overlooks the masterpiece in him, and sees only a frame
of darkness, it is still your only function to behold in him what he
sees not. And in this seeing is the vision shared that looks on Christ
INSTEAD of seeing death.

How could the Lord of Heaven not be glad if you appreciate His
masterpiece? What could He do but offer thanks to you who love His Son
as He does? Would He not make known to you His Love, if you but share
His praise of what He loves? God cherishes creation as the perfect
Father that He is. And so His joy is made complete when any part of Him
joins in His praise, to share His joy. This brother is His perfect gift
to you. And He is glad and thankful when you thank His perfect Son for
being what he is. And all His thanks and gladness shine on you who would
complete His joy, along with Him. And thus is YOURS completed. Not one
ray of darkness can be seen by those who will to make their Father’s
happiness complete, and theirs along with His. The gratitude of God
Himself is freely offered to everyone who shares His purpose. It is not
His Will to be alone. And neither is it yours.

Forgive your brother, and you cannot separate yourself from him, nor
from his Father. You NEED no forgiveness, for the wholly pure have never
sinned. Give, then, what He has given you, that you may see His Son as
one, and thank his Father as He thanks you. Nor believe that all His
praise is given not to you. For what you give is His, and giving it, you
learn to understand His gift to you. And give the Holy Spirit what He
offers unto the Father and the Son alike. Nothing has power over you
except His Will and yours, who but extend His Will. It was for this you
were created, and your brother with you, and at one with you.

You are the same as God Himself is One, and not divided in His Will. And
you must have one purpose, since He gave the same to both of you. His
Will is brought together as you join in will, that you be made complete
by offering completion to your brother. See not in him the sinfulness he
sees, but give him honor that you may esteem yourself and him. To each
of you is given the power of salvation, that escape from darkness into
light be yours to share; that you may see as one what never has been
separate, nor apart from all God’s Love as given equally.

