---
chapter: Twenty Five
ctitle: The Remedy
title: The Fundamental Law of Perception
ref: T25.3
---

To the extent to which you value guilt, to that extent will you
perceive a world in which attack is justified. To the extent to which
you recognize that guilt is meaningless, to that extent will you
perceive attack cannot BE justified. This is in strict accord with
vision’s fundamental law:You see what you believe is there, and you
believe it there because you WANT it there. Perception has no other law
than this. The rest but stems from this, to hold it up and offer it
support. This is perception’s form, adapted to this world, of God’s more
basic law; that love creates itself, and nothing BUT itself.

God’s laws do not obtain directly to a world perception rules, for such
a world could not have been created by the Mind to which perception has
no meaning. Yet are His laws reflected everywhere. Not that the world
where this reflection is is real at all. Only because His Son believes
it is, and from His Son’s belief He could not let Himself be separate
entirely. He could not enter His Son’s insanity with him, but He could
be sure His sanity went there with him, so he could not be lost forever
in the madness of his wish.

Perception rests on choosing; knowledge does not. Knowledge has but one
law because it has but One Creator. But this world has two who made it,
and they do not see it as the same. To each it has a different purpose,
and to each it is a perfect means to serve the goal for which it is
perceived. For specialness, it is the perfect frame to set it off; the
perfect battleground to wage its wars, the perfect shelter for the
illusions which it would make real. Not one but it upholds in its
perception; not one but can be fully justified.

There is another Maker of the world, the simultaneous Corrector of the
mad belief that anything could be established and maintained without
some link that kept it still within the laws of God; not as the law
itself upholds the universe as God created it, but in some form adapted
to the need the Son of God believes he has. Corrected error is the
error’s end. And thus has God protected still His Son, even in error.
There is another purpose in the world that error made, because it has
another Maker Who can reconcile its goal with His Creator’s purpose. In
His perception of the world, nothing is seen but justifies forgiveness
and the sight of perfect sinlessness. Nothing arises but is met with
instant and complete forgiveness.

Nothing remains an instant, to obscure the sinlessness that shines
unchanged, beyond the pitiful attempts of specialness to put it
out of mind, where it must be, and light the body up INSTEAD of it. The
lamps of Heaven are not for it to choose to see them where it will. If
it elects to see them elsewhere from their home, as if they lit a place
where they could never be, and YOU agree, then must the Maker of the
world correct your error, lest you remain in darkness, where the lamps
are not. Everyone here has entered darkness, yet no-one has entered it
alone. For he has come with Heaven’s Help within him, ready to lead him
OUT of darkness into light at any time.

The time he chooses CAN be any time, for help is there, awaiting but his
choice. And when he chooses to avail himself of what is given him, then
will he see each situation that he thought before was means to justify
his anger turned to an event which justifies his love. He will hear
plainly that the calls to war he heard before are really calls to peace.
He will perceive that where he gave attack is but another altar where he
can, with equal ease and far more happiness, bestow forgiveness. And he
will reinterpret all temptation as just another chance to bring him joy.
How can a misperception be a sin? Let all your brother’s errors be to
you nothing except a chance for you to see the workings of the Helper
given you to see the world He made, instead of yours.

What, then, IS justified? What do you WANT? For these two questions are
the same. And when you see them AS the same, your choice is made. For it
is seeing them as one that brings release from the belief there ARE two
ways to see. This world has much to offer to your peace, and many
chances to extend your own forgiveness. Such its purpose is, to those
who WANT to see peace and forgiveness descend on them, and offer them
the light.

The Maker of the world of gentleness has perfect power to offset the
world of violence and hate that seems to stand between you and His
gentleness. It is not there in His forgiving eyes. And therefore it need
not be there in yours. Sin is the fixed belief perception CANNOT
change. What has been damned is damned and damned forever, being forever
unforgivable. If, then, it IS forgiven, sin’s perception must have been
wrong. And thus is change made possible. The Holy Spirit, too, sees what
He sees as far beyond the chance of change. But on His vision sin cannot
encroach, for sin has been CORRECTED by His sight. And thus it must have
been an error, not a sin. For what it claimed could never be, has been.
Sin is attacked by punishment, and so preserved. But to forgive it is to
change its state from error into truth.

The Son of God could never sin, but he CAN wish for what would hurt him.
And he HAS the power to think he can be hurt. What could this be except
a misperception of himself? Is this a sin or a mistake, forgivable or
not? Does he need help or condemnation? Is it your purpose that he be
saved or damned? Forgetting not that what he is to you will make this
choice YOUR future? For you make it NOW, the instant when all time
becomes a means to reach a goal. Make, then, your choice. But recognize
that IN this choice the purpose of the world you see is chosen, and WILL
be justified.

