---
chapter: Thirty One
ctitle: The Simplicity of Salvation
title: The Self-Accused
ref: T31.2
---

Only the self-accused condemn. As you prepare to make a choice that will
result in different outcomes, there is first one thing that must be
overlearned. It must become a habit of response so typical of everything
you do that it becomes your first response to all
temptation, and to every situation that occurs. Learn this, and learn it
well, for it is here delay of happiness is shortened by a span of time
you cannot realize. You never hate your brother for his sins, but ONLY
for your own. Whatever form his sins appear to take it but obscures the
fact that you believe it to be yours, and therefore meriting a “just”
attack.

Why should his sins BE sins, if you did not believe they could not be
forgiven in you? Why are they real in him, if you did not believe that
they are your reality? And why do you attack them everywhere except you
hate yourself? Are YOU a sin? You answer “yes” whenever you attack, for
by attack do you assert that you are guilty, and must give as you
deserve. And what can you deserve but what you ARE? If you did not
believe that you deserved attack, it never would occur to you to GIVE
attack to anyone at all. Why should you? What would be the gain to you?
What could the outcome be that you would WANT? And how COULD murder
bring you benefit?

Sins are in bodies. They are not perceived in minds. They are not seen as
purposes, but actions. Bodies act, and minds do not. And therefore must
the body be at fault for what it does. It is not seen to be a passive
thing, obeying your commands, and doing nothing of itself at all. If you
are sin you ARE a body, for the mind acts not. And purpose must be in
the body, not the mind. The body must act on its own, and motivate
itself. If you are sin, you lock the mind within the body, and you give
its purpose to its prison-house, which acts instead of it. A jailer does
not follow orders, but ENFORCES orders on the prisoner.

Yet is the BODY prisoner, and NOT the mind. The body thinks no thoughts.
It has no power to learn, to pardon, nor enslave. It gives no orders
that the mind need serve, nor sets conditions that it must obey. It
holds in prison but the willing mind that would abide in it. It sickens
at the bidding of the mind that would become its prisoner. And it grows
old and dies, because that mind is sick within itself. Learning is all
that causes change. And so the body, where no learning can occur, could
never change unless the mind preferred the body change in its
appearances, to suit the purpose given by the mind. For it CAN learn,
and THERE is all change made.

The mind that thinks it is a sin has but one purpose; that the
body be the source of sin, and keep it in the prison-house it chose and
guards, and hold itself at bay, a sleeping prisoner to the snarling dogs
of hate and evil, sickness and attack; of pain and age, of grief and
suffering. Here are the thoughts of sacrifice preserved, for here guilt
rules, and orders that the world be like itself; a place where nothing
can find mercy, or survive the ravages of fear except in murder and in
death. For here are you made sin, and sin cannot abide the joyous and
the free, for they are enemies which sin must kill. In death is sin
preserved, and those who think that they are sin must die for what they
think they are.

Let us be glad that you WILL see what you believe, and that it has been
given you to CHANGE what you believe. The body will but follow. It can
never lead you where you would not be. It does not guard your sleep, nor
interfere with your awakening. Release your body from imprisonment, and
you will see no-one as prisoner to what you have escaped. You will not
want to hold in guilt your chosen enemies, nor keep in chains to the
illusion of a changing love the ones you think are friends.

The innocent release in gratitude for THEIR release. And what they see
upholds their freedom from imprisonment and death. Open your mind to
change, and there will be no ancient penalty exacted from your brother
OR yourself. For God has said there IS no sacrifice that can be asked;
there IS no sacrifice that can be made.

