---
chapter: Thirty One
ctitle: The Simplicity of Salvation
title: Recognizing the Spirit
ref: T31.5
---

You see the flesh or recognize the Spirit. There is no compromise
between the two. If one is real the other must be false, for what is
real denies its opposite. There is no choice in vision but this one.
What you decide in this determines ALL you see and think is real and
hold as true. On this one choice does all your world depend, for here
have you established what you are, as flesh or Spirit in your own
belief. If you choose flesh, you never will escape the body as your own
reality, for you have chosen that you WANT it so. But choose the Spirit,
and all Heaven bends to touch your eyes and bless your holy sight, that
you may see the world of flesh no more except to heal and comfort and to
bless.

Salvation is undoing. If you choose to see the body, you behold a world
of separation, unrelated things, and happenings that make no sense at
all. This one appears and disappears in death; that one is doomed to
suffering and loss. And no-one is exactly as he was an instant previous,
nor will he be the same as he is now an instant hence. Who could have
trust where so much change is seen, for who is worthy if he be but dust?
Salvation is undoing of all this. And constancy arises in the sight of
those whose eyes salvation has released from looking at the cost of
keeping guilt, because they chose to let it go instead.

Salvation does not ask that you behold the Spirit and perceive the body
not. It merely asks that this should be your CHOICE. For you can see the
body without help, but do not understand how to behold a world apart
from it. It is your world salvation will undo, and let you see another
world YOUR eyes could never find. Be not concerned how this could ever
be. You do not understand how what you see arose to meet your sight. For
if you did, it would be gone. The veil of ignorance is drawn across the
evil and the good, and must be passed that both may disappear, so that
perception finds no hiding place. How is this done? It is not done at
all. What could there be within the universe which God created that must
still be done?

Only in arrogance could you conceive that YOU must make the way to
Heaven plain. The means are given you by which to see the world that
will replace the one you made. Your will be done! In Heaven as on earth
this is forever true. It matters not where you
believe you are, nor what you think the truth about yourself must really
be. It makes no difference what you look upon, nor what you choose to
feel or think or wish. For God Himself has said,“Your will be done.” And
it IS done to you accordingly.

You who believe that you can choose to see the Son of God as you would
have him be, forget not that no concept of yourself will stand against
the truth of what you are. Undoing truth would be impossible. But
concepts are not difficult to change. ONE vision, clearly seen, that
does not fit the picture as it was perceived before will change the
world for eyes that learn to see, because the concept of the SELF has
changed. Are YOU invulnerable? Then the world is harmless in your sight.
Do YOU forgive? Then is the world forgiving, for you have forgiven it
its trespasses, and so it looks on you with eyes that see as yours. Are
YOU a body? So is all the world perceived as treacherous, and out to
kill.

Are you a Spirit, deathless, and without the promise of corruption and
the stain of sin upon you? So the world is seen as stable, fully worthy
of your trust; a happy place to rest in for a while, where nothing need
be feared, but only loved. Who is unwelcome to the kind in heart? And
what could hurt the truly innocent? Your will be done, you holy Child of
God. It does not matter if you think you are in earth or Heaven. What
your Father wills for you can never change. The truth in you remains as
radiant as a star, as pure as light, as innocent as Love Itself. And you
ARE worthy that your Will be done!

