---
chapter: Thirty One
ctitle: The Simplicity of Salvation
title: Choose Once Again
ref: T31.7
---

Temptation has one lesson it would teach, in all its forms, wherever it
occurs. It would persuade the holy Son of God he is a body, born in what
must die, unable to escape its frailty, and bound by what it
orders him to feel. It sets the limits on what he can do; its power is
the only strength he has; his grasp cannot exceed its tiny reach. Would
you BE this, if Christ appeared to you in all His glory, asking you but
this,

> “Choose once again if you would take your place among the Saviors of
> the world, or would remain in hell, and hold your brothers there.”

For He HAS come, and He IS asking this.

How do you make the choice? How easily is this explained! You always
choose between your weakness and the strength of Christ in you. And what
you choose is what you think is real. Simply by never using weakness to
direct your actions, you have given it no power. And the light of Christ
in you is given charge of everything you do. For you have brought your
weakness unto Him, and He has given you His strength instead.

Trials are but lessons which you failed to learn presented once again,
so where you made a faulty choice before you now can make a better one,
and thus escape all pain which what you chose before has brought to you.
In every difficulty, all distress, and each perplexity Christ calls to
you and gently says, “My brother, choose again.” He would not leave one
source of pain unhealed, nor any image left to veil the truth. He would
not leave you comfortless, alone in dreams of hell, but would release
your minds from everything that hides His face from you. His holiness is
yours because He is the ONLY power that is real in you. His strength is
yours because He is the Self that God created as His ONLY Son.

The images you make can NOT prevail against what God Himself would have
you be. Be never fearful of temptation, then, but see it as it is;
another chance to choose again, and let Christ’s strength prevail in
every circumstance and every place you raised an image of yourself
before. For what appears to hide the face of Christ is powerless before
His majesty, and disappears before His holy sight. The Saviors of the
world, who see like Him, are merely those who chose His strength instead
of their own weakness, seen apart from Him. They will redeem the world,
for they are joined in all the power of the Will of God. And what they
will is ONLY what He wills.

Learn, then, the happy habit of response to all temptation to perceive
yourself as weak and miserable with these words,

> “I am as God created me. His Son<br/>
> can suffer nothing. And I AM His Son.”

Thus is Christ’s strength invited to prevail, replacing all your
weakness with the strength that comes from God, and that can never fail.
And thus are miracles as natural as fear and agony appeared to be before
the choice for holiness was made. For in that choice are false
distinctions gone, illusory alternatives laid by, and nothing left to
interfere with truth.

You ARE as God created you, and so is every living thing you look upon,
regardless of the images you see. What you behold as sickness and as
pain, as weakness and as suffering and loss, is but temptation to
perceive yourself defenseless and in hell. Yield not to this, and you
will see all pain, in every form, wherever it occurs, but disappear as
mists before the sun. A miracle has come to heal God’s Son, and close
the door upon his dreams of weakness, opening the way to his salvation
and release. Choose once again what you would have him be, remembering
that every choice you make establishes your own identity as you will see
it, and believe it IS.

Deny me not the little gift I ask, when in exchange I lay before your
feet the peace of God, and power to bring this peace to everyone who
wanders in the world uncertain, lonely, and in constant fear. For it is
given you to join with him, and through the Christ in you unveil his
eyes, and let him look upon the Christ in him. My brothers in salvation,
do not fail to hear my voice and listen to my words. I ask for nothing
but your OWN release. There is no place for hell within a world whose
loveliness can yet be so intense and so inclusive it is but a step from
there to Heaven. To your tired eyes I bring a vision of a different
world, so new and clean and fresh you will forget the pain and sorrow
that you saw before. Yet this a vision is which you must share with
everyone you see, for otherwise you will behold it not. To give this
gift is how to make it yours. And God ordained, in loving kindness, that
it BE for you.

Let us be glad that we can walk the world, and find so many chances to
perceive another situation where God’s gift can once
again be recognized as ours! And thus will all the vestiges of hell, the
secret “sins” and hidden hates be gone. And all the loveliness which
they concealed appear like lawns of Heaven to our sight, to lift us high
above the thorny roads we travelled on before the Christ appeared. Hear
me, my brothers, hear and join with me. God has ordained I cannot call
in vain, and in His certainty I rest content. For you WILL hear, and you
WILL choose again. And in this choice is everyone made free.

I thank You, Father, for these holy ones who are my brothers as they are
Your Sons. My faith in them is Yours. I am as sure that they will come
to me as You are sure of what they are, and will forever be. They will
accept the gift I offer them, because You gave it me on their behalf.
And as I would but do Your holy Will, so will they choose. And I give
thanks for them. Salvation’s song will echo through the world with every
choice they make. For we are one in purpose, and the end of hell is
near.

In joyous welcome is my hand outstretched to every brother who would
join with me in reaching past temptation, and who looks with fixed
determination toward the light that shines beyond in perfect constancy.
Give me my own, for they belong to You. And can You fail in what is but
Your Will? I give You thanks for what my brothers are. And as each one
elects to join with me, the song of thanks from earth to Heaven grows
from tiny scattered threads of melody to one inclusive chorus from a
world redeemed from hell, and giving thanks to You.

And now we say “Amen.” For Christ has come to dwell in the abode You set
for Him before time was, in calm eternity. The journey closes, ending at
the place where it began. No trace of it remains. Not one illusion is
accorded faith, and not one spot of darkness still remains to hide the
face of Christ from anyone. Thy Will is done, complete and perfectly,
and all creation recognizes You, and knows You as the only Source it
has. Clear in Your Likeness does the Light shine forth from everything
that lives and moves in You. For we have reached where all of us are
One, and we are home, where You would have us be.

