---
title: Dec 12, 2002
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good evening.  It is good to have all of you here. And I welcome
everyone who is also listening on the Internet.

Last week we were talking about the Altar and that the problems that are
experienced are a result of having one’s back turned to the Altar, and
becoming distracted by the glow, the Effulgence, that surrounds the
Altar. And then, because one is in a consciously disconnected . . . in a
conscious disconnectedness with his divinity, the Altar, there is an
experience of fear—an inevitable, unavoidable experience of fear,
anxiety, concern, vulnerability. And that one then begins to manipulate
the glow as a defense.

It is inevitable that all of you will find that as you turn back to the
Altar where the opportunity of becoming connected once again with the
very Essence of You, which is the flame, if you will, the illumination
of Love that’s in the center of the Altar, that healing will be the
result.  Healing will be what you will have increasing evidence of.

And so it’s utterly natural that the next chapter is entitled:

HEALING AS RELEASE FROM FEAR1  

Remember that fear is occasioned by having consciously disconnected
yourself from your capital “S” Self, the Altar, which is the Presence of
God.  And remember also, that to try to defend yourself, or save
yourself, from what you find yourself fearing, you must not try to
manipulate the glow more efficiently. You must turn around toward the
Altar. So let’s keep this is mind as we proceed through this next
section.

We’ll start right here:

Our emphasis is now on healing. The miracle is the means, the Atonement
is the principle, and healing is the result.  

[repeats] . . . Healing is the result. 

Let’s not forget that.

It’s too easy to get into a metaphysical mishmash of confusion where one
can say, “I am Waking up and I don’t have evidence of healing, but
evidence of healing is not the point.” It isn’t the point, but if you
don’t have the evidence of it, you don’t have evidence of Atonement.
Healing is the result.  Expect it.  Demand it.  And if you aren’t
experiencing it yet, persist in turning back to the Altar, giving your
attention to It so that you might be infilled with the Love that you
Are, that helps remind you that it’s senseless for you to be standing
apart from It observing It, and so that you might have a
back-into-the-Love experience, like a back-into-the-body experience.

Continue . . .

To speak of “a miracle of healing” is to combine two orders of reality
inappropriately. Healing is not a miracle. The Atonement, or the final
miracle, is a remedy and any type of healing is a result. The kind of
error to which Atonement is applied is irrelevant. All healing is
essentially the release from fear.  

Say that again:

All healing is essentially the release from fear.  

Again more slowly:

All…healing…is…essentially…the…release…from…fear.  

Indeed.  Continue . . .

To undertake this you cannot be fearful yourself. You do not understand
healing because of your own fear.  

Now you will not understand healing as long as you have your back to the
Altar.

But the moment you turn toward the Altar and you are not giving your
attention to your fearful establishment of defense, you will find
yourself feeling loved by the Light of the Altar, which is your
essential Being and is the Presence of God in you as You. And as that
Love infills you, fear will leave, and the evidence of fear will leave,
and perfection is what you will find yourself experiencing.  And you
will understand what has happened.

But it is not as though the understanding is what brought about the
healing.  And you will know that as well.  You will know that the Love
you have been embraced by from the Altar, is the very Love that you Are.
And in the absence of any sense of separation from It, you will feel the
wholeness of your Being that has always been available for you to
experience. And what you will understand is Love is the answer. What you
will understand is that giving your attention to the Love that you Are,
the Altar in the center of you, rather than to that which you would
defend yourself against, demonstrates the fact that what you were afraid
of was an illusion. This I call a Knowing rather than an understanding.
It’s the truth experienced by you consciously—not over and against
anything—but as the only thing that is Real. And right now when you are
feeling defended in any aspect, truth is still the only thing that is
Real about you.

Continue . . .

A major step in the Atonement plan is to undo error at all levels.
Sickness or “not-right-mindedness” is the result of level confusion, . . 

Let’s stop right there.

Sickness has here been defined as “not-right-mindedness.” It hasn’t been
defined as not-right-physicalness, or not-right-relationships, or
not-right-governmental-leaders. Sickness is defined as
“not-right-mindedness.”

Continue . . . Sickness . . .

Sickness or “not-right-mindedness” is the result of level confusion,
because it always entails the belief that what is amiss on one level can
adversely affect another.  

You see, here it is in simple language. When you turn your back on the
Altar and you consciously dissociate yourself from your connection with
your Source, you become preoccupied, as I said, with the glow, with the
evidence of the Presence of the Altar.  And fear is immediately present.

You don’t know what it is you are fearful of, because you don’t know why
you’re afraid. You don’t realize that you’re afraid because you’ve
turned your back on your very Being. Now, you’re looking at the effect
of the Presence of the Altar—the glow.  And you decide to use the glow
to defend yourself with.  And you can defend it with beauty, or you can
defend it, as I said last week, as an armament, as armor.

And what are you going to use to beautify or strengthen armament? To
beautify, to provide a beautiful façade that constitutes a distraction
from the essential You, or to strengthen a fortress? Well, the only
thing for you to do anything with, the only thing you are ever
confronted with is Reality—the Kingdom of Heaven—the Infinite
Manifestation of God. And so you will have to take some of the Infinite
Manifestation of God to strengthen your fortress. Or you will have to
take some of the Infinite Manifestation of God to create more exquisite
distracting beauty. In other words, you will start using effects,
manifestations, to strengthen the manifestation of your defense; the
evidence of your defense.

This is called level confusion. It’s confusion because you have two
choices. The real choice of turning around and facing the Altar and
feeling into the Presence of Love that is at its center, which is God
Being all there is of you.  Or, you have the option to keep your back to
It and use more of the manifestation of God to keep you safe against
other aspects of the infinite manifestation of God that you are going to
defend yourself against. You see what I’m saying?

Continue . . .

We have referred to miracles as the means of correcting level confusion,
for all mistakes must be corrected at the level on which they occur.
Only the mind is capable of error.  

And what causes it to experience error is by giving its attention in the
wrong place.

Continue . . .

The body can act wrongly only when it is responding to misthought.  

And we’ll say that the glow, the effulgence, around the Altar, can only
respond to, let us say, the manipulations that a Son of God applies to
it when the Son of God has forgotten that he is the Son of God and that
to use some part of God as a defense against some other part of God is
utter foolishness.

Continue . . .

The body cannot create,…  

The infinite manifestation of God cannot create.  Yes.

Let’s not confine this just to what you call the physical body. It’s to
all evidence of existence.  All evidence of Being.  Creation  itself.

Continue . . .

 . . . and the belief that it can, a fundamental error, produces all
 physical symptoms. Physical illness represents a belief in magic. The
 whole distortion that made magic rests on the belief that there is a
 creative ability in matter which the mind cannot control.  

Indeed.

Interesting. 2

When you look at Creation with your back to the Altar, and therefore
disconnected from the Father’s Perspective about Creation, because
Creation is alive, because it is manifesting life, it appears to be able
to be aggressive, and therefore a formidable enemy to protect yourself
against. It doesn’t just sit there in a static state, because it’s the
evidence of God Himself. And so, one can come to the conclusion that the
foe is aggressive, intelligent, and able to direct its attention toward
you negatively—which is why, you assume, you must be ready to defend
yourself against this active, aggressive foe. And yet, the only Life the
foe seems to have is the Life that Creation Itself is perfectly
expressing in a God-directed way.

Continue . . .

This error can take two forms; it can be believed that the mind can
miscreate in the body, or that the body can miscreate in the mind.  

Yes.

When it is understood that the mind, the only level of creation, cannot
create beyond itself, neither type of confusion need occur.  

That is correct.

There isn’t anything but Mind. And that is why I keep saying that
everything you are seeing is an Idea in the Mind of God. And that all
Ideas are perfectly tangible and experiential/experienceable to the Mind
which formed them. But just because they are tangible to the Mind that
forms them, doesn’t mean they’re matter. They are Pure Spirit.

In that first form of error where the mind miscreates the body. Okay?

Yes.

I’m not quite clear on the disease, or illness, or sickness, can be
created by . . . it . . . I mean for instance, if you worry, if there’s
worry or defensiveness, or I mean I think everybody has had the
experience of making themselves sick with worry. So, is that not the
mind causing disturbance in the body?

Absolutely.

Okay.  So what does this mean where it says the mind miscreates, the
first error is that the mind miscreates the body? Is that not a
miscreation in the body? For instance, you know, having an upsettedness
so bad that you create an ulcer, or a tumor, or something like that.
Isn’t that a miscreation in the body?

Of course.

So I thought that that was an error. It says, “The error can take two
forms. It can be believed that the mind can miscreate the body.”

Yes.

So what you’re saying is that that manifestation is an error? Or is it
saying . . .

Absolutely.  It is not the truth.  It is a misperception.

Okay. I see what you’re saying. I see. So it actually is happening. But
it’s because of an error that the mind is . . .

The mind actually . . . the mind believes it’s actually happening.

But in Reality, it’s not?

That’s correct.  That is the only way you could experience an
instantaneous healing.

I see what you’re saying. It is the recognition that it doesn’t exist.
That it’s not happening.

The miracle is a sudden shift of perception.

Right.

One cannot possibly have a sudden shift of perception without seeing a
sudden shift in the manifestation of his experience; a shift that cannot
be accommodated by the laws of physics.

Well, so, in other words, you see what you believe.

Exactly.

Then that, then that to me, it’s like then what is Reality?

Ah . . .

I mean if you see what you believe. [laughs]

That’s the best question you could ask. And when you ask that question
and don’t try to figure it out yourself, you are in effect turning
toward the Altar.

Okay. Okay.  So, not having the answer to that question, that’s okay? I
can relax? [laughter] 

Not having the answer to that question can’t help but trigger curiosity
the next time you experience a discomfort. It can’t help but trigger
curiosity even if there is no complaint, because it means that what you
are experiencing right there as your body at this moment is not the
ultimate truth; is actually flawed. Your perception and experience of it
is flawed by the fact that you are not giving your attention to it WITH
GOD, so that God might reveal to you what He is Being right there.

No miscreation ever becomes Real. You see what you believe, but the
corker of it is that you believe what you see. That locks you in until
you have the curiosity to see what it really Is. It will take something
to distract you from your conviction—from  the conviction of your
belief.  And what it will take is  curiosity.

May I? I’d like to have one more quick [question].  So, say, I haven’t
seen someone, a friend, in a long time. And they have misperceived
themselves as being ill. And I haven’t heard about it or anything. And
then I see them and I go, “Oh, my God! They don’t look well at all.”
That is obviously . . .

Thank God, I didn’t do that with Lazarus. And he looked pretty bad.
[much audience laughter]

So that . . . so what’s happening there is it is a mutually-agreed-upon
concept. What’s happening there.

Of course.

In other words, I didn’t know they were sick. So how did I see them as
sick? It was . . . there’s a communication taking part on a whole
different . . . another level, other than speech. Or it’s like I didn’t
know they were going to be looking sick, but as soon as I look at them,
they don’t even have to say anything, and I’m perceiving that. And
that’s because all minds are joined?  And . . .

. . . and the fact that you already have mutually-agreed-upon
definitions to various kinds of appearances.

So, because they are feeling bad, they present this image, and then
automatically I buy into it?

Unfortunately, you do it automatically . . . yes.  You have another
option.  And that’s what you all have to realize. [snaps fingers] On the
spot, you have another option . . . 

Okay. Thank you.

 . . . so that you don’t join them further in confirming what they are
 believing about themselves.

And as long as you are joining with them and confirming it, you are
incapable of being an agent for change, or the precipitator of a
miracle.

And mind you, what you believe about them is whatever you believe about
yourself.

I was just reminded of a song. The title of it is, “One Belief Away.”
And that that’s why a miracle is always spontaneous, because if we
realized it was the mutual… that this is where the mutual agreement fits
in. You know, when we release that belief. A simple thought. We’re one
belief away from a miracle every moment. That that’s . . . the potential
is so great every moment, that I could think even in this room tonight.

Exactly . . . yes.

To make this simple again. We have this whirlwind of body misperceiving
mind, mind misperceiving body, mutual agreements, ya diddy ya. And all
the time, all of Reality is in the Altar, and all I need to do is turn
and look at that. Simply.

Yes. And all the time, Reality, unperturbed by all of these imaginings,
awaits your discovery of It as it Is.

And then the activity of the Atonement becomes obvious to me by looking
at the Altar. The way to change the world becomes obvious to me simply
by looking at the Altar.

Yes.  Because when you are looking at the Altar, its Illumination
illuminates you, and renders your committed beliefs invalid
effortlessly. And once they are seen as invalid, they are seen as not
useful. And none of you holds on to anything that you don’t find useful.
You don’t even have to throw away an un-useful belief once it is
recognized to be not useful. It is abandoned effortlessly.

Be aware that you see what you believe. And so, you believe you’re
vulnerable. And you get tense; experience chronic anxiety.  You say that
your body tenses up, but you are tensing it up. That’s where level
confusion comes in. You say, “My body is doing something. It is tensing
up.” But it is not. You, experiencing anxiety, tense your body up to
give it more density, to fool yourself into believing that it is more
impervious by virtue of the tension, the tightness. And then, because
you believe that your body is doing this, you then begin to believe what
you are seeing, and you see your body as an enemy which you must bring
under control. You see? Then you say, “My body has an actual disease, an
ulcer, or a cancer.” See, that’s when you are believing what you are
seeing. And that will lock you in to the experience of cancer and
whatever your associated beliefs are about it.

I will tell you all something: You could have much more creative beliefs
about cancer. Your creative beliefs about cancer could involve the
restructuring and rebuilding of a lost limb. That will give you
something to contemplate. A different set of beliefs about it would have
a different effect.

So, it is dangerous to believe what you see, and say, “My mind has
created an actual disease.” It’s still as illusory and intangible as the
confused thought that caused you to use your body in that way. You see?

So indeed, you must dare to look at whatever the dis-ease is and
recognize, be willing to recognize that it is an illusion caused by
seeing what you have believed in your mind first, and then believing the
result, as though it’s separate and different from your mind. Because
until you realize that only mind has the capacity to be creative, you
won’t be able to get free of believing what you’re seeing and changing
your mind by being willing to turn around to the Altar and say, “God,
what is this really? What is this thing I call ‘body’ really? What is
this thing I call ‘world and universe’ really?” If it’s the effulgence,
the manifestation of God being the Movement of Creation constantly, then
you are all in store for the wonderful experience of having it revealed
to you as what It really is.

If you realize that the cancer, or whatever it might be, whatever
dis-ease it might be, is nothing more than a mental distortion that was
caused by the adopting of certain ideas, and a commitment to those
ideas, you will then have the means of being miracle-ready, because you
won’t fight the cancer, or the dis-ease. You will turn around to God and
say, “What’s the real Meaning?” And you will ask it with a conscious
desire to have your belief replaced with the conscious experience of
what it really is, the direct experience of what it really is.  You see?  

Yes . . .

Okay. The body is a very cherished and long-held idea, as are sicknesses
and the cause of sicknesses. Yet, the Bible talks of you walking along
with the multitudes and healing the people there.

. . . instantaneously, by the way.

Instantaneously . . . so you are seeing, when you see them, you see what
you believe so you don’t see them as sick. Yet somehow this belief is
able to shine from out of your Mind and into theirs so that they can
adopt the belief that you presented as well, and experience the
instantaneous healing.

There’s one key point. They had to be willing. Miriam was not willing,
and so she remained lame.

So the healing was only to those who came to you for seeking healing?

Exactly.

And in doing so, it was easier for them to accept your Vision as their
own?

They had to have their eyes turned toward the Altar as well. Otherwise,
all I would be doing would be creating a further illusion.

So it was a . . . so the healings are choreographed.

You might say that they are choreographed by the desire and willingness
of the one wanting to be healed.

Which would be you as well as the blind man joined in that desire.

Indeed.

Okay.

Yes. As I’ve said before, your good cannot be inflicted upon you. And
knowing that is a step of empowerment for each of you. You say, “Oh, my
God! You mean it’s all up to me?” Well, I’ll tell you something. If it
was up to someone else, you would be at their mercy. What if they didn’t
choose to service you today? “Oh, I’m busy today. Come back tomorrow . .
.”  You see?

But when you say, “It’s up to you,” the You that you Are is more than
this body we think we are, which is part of the problem, which is part
of the wrong-mindedness.

Yes.

Because the you . . . the Me that I am or the I Am that I am is
inclusive of all of us here.

That is correct.

So Virginia’s healing is also my healing.

Absolutely.

And I guess I can see that shining by the effect that her . . . that
witnessing her healing has upon me or anyone else’s.

And even those who haven’t seen it and don’t know it has happened.

Because it’ll be there when their awareness is ready to . . . 

Whether they like it or not, the density of the dream has lessened with
every little insight that anyone experiences. And any instantaneous
healing that occurs that cannot be attributed to any physical cause,
causes such a shift in the experience and the mind of the one who had
the healing, that it touches everyone else as well. And it becomes
easier for that to happen for everyone else. But it can’t make anyone
accept the truth.

The thing that was not necessarily confusing me, but, when I was
thinking about the correction of the mistake at the level that it’s
occurring on, I was getting this little, uh, you know, here’s a chance
to go back in and mess with it on my own, kind of a thing, which
instantly I knew that wasn’t right. But that was sort of what was going
on. It’s like is this an option for me to go back in and mess with this
stuff on my own? And now I see, from what you were saying, that all
that’s gonna to be is the lesson. And I take that mistake at the level
it appears to be and that’s what I turn to God. That’s when I turn to
the Altar. And that’s just the lesson for today. All it is, is a
trigger. The action is still the same.

Yes.  Let’s say that with your back to the Altar, you have taken on the
persona of a warrior. And so you have your armor, and you have your
behavior as a warrior, as a retaliator against the attack coming from
the world. And then, you get a little bit of illumination, and you try
to incorporate it into your experience, and so you say, “Ah! Maybe the
answer is not to be so warlike, but to express love.  Ah . . . okay,
well then, I’m going to dismantle my fortress. And I am going to make it
lovelier. I’m going to make it less aggressive appearing, more benign
appearing, more attractive so people won’t be afraid of me. And I will
behave in a new way that is loving, because something in me tells me
that loving kindness is more powerful than hate and attack.” And so this
person makes the appearance more lovely, but his back is still to the
Altar. You see? It is ultimately still a defense against being in one’s
right Mind. It’s still succumbing to the idea that the world separate
from God actually does exist, but needs to be treated in a new way.

Feng Shui . . .

Pardon?

Feng Shui, or whatever, you know. I mean redecorate your life.

Indeed.  Indeed.

Make it more user-friendlier.

And so one joins with others in a new set of mutually-agreed-upon
definitions of behavior. And so you have, let us say, the United States,
or western civilization, and they join together on a basis of justice,
on a basis of respect for human rights. And they believe that their
integrity and their high-minded values are a more worthy power or force
in the world, which can cause those who don’t yet understand it, to
knuckle under and get it, whether they’ve asked for it or not.

Whereas, if they turned to the Altar they would be filled with the
experience of Love that would illuminate them and their behavior.  And
there would be no occasion to force others to recognize Love. But by
being the Presence of Love, which has no ulterior motive to it, it would
tend to melt the fear that would cause terrorism, or that would cause
retaliation.  The behavior would be different, but the actual healing
element would be the benign Love at the center of it, radiating out and
embracing everything without having a card up its sleeve, without having
an ulterior motive of coercion. You see?

The redecorating your life, and Feng Shui, and making everything nice
though seems . . .

. . . or redecorating the world according to high principles.

But it seems better than overwhelming force using all our options. I
mean that’s a long way from Feng Shui. That’s . . . but you’re saying
there’s no difference between having an overwhelming force using all our
options, and just trying to tidy the place up a little bit and make it a
little more . . . same stuff.

Ignorance is ignorance, whether it is expressed beautifully or harshly.
Get this clear and you will attend to what will actually heal, what will
actually transform.

And you won’t spontaneously give support to those who are rearranging
the world from “high principles.” Do you see what I’m saying? And
without support they won’t be able to remain quote “in power” unquote.

Let’s continue . . .

Only the mind can create because spirit has already been created, and
the body is a learning device of the mind. Learning devices are not
lessons in themselves.  

I’m going to repeat something here that I have said in the past.
Whenever you look at the Presence of God and say that it’s something
other than the Presence of God, that particular Presence of God becomes
a learning-device for you. When you look at the Presence of God and say,
“That’s not the Presence of God,” the fact that it is the Presence of
God and can’t stop being the Presence of God, will constitute, I’m going
to call, an ever-present assertion in your experience of what it really
Is, because it can’t stop being what it Is. And your denial of what it
Is, is going to cause a friction, you might say, a discomfort in you,
because you can’t be out of your Mind and be comfortable. And so,
whatever of Reality you look at and you say, “It’s unreal,” will become
a learning-tool; not because that’s its actual function, but because
what it really Is cannot escape you.

And so, what it really Is will constantly nudge you, bug you, irritate
you—not because it’s trying to be irritable—but because it will
constantly insist upon registering with you as what it Is. And so, it
will grab your attention, and hold your attention until you bless it by
saying, “What are you really?  In spite of what I believe you are, what
are you really?” And once what it Is registers with you, you experience
it as it Is for what it Is, and it is no longer a learning-tool, because
there’s no learning for you to experience about it.

Here’s another way of putting it. When you look at some aspect of the
Presence of God and say, “It isn’t God,” you have created ignorance of
what it Is within yourself, and thereby an opportunity to learn. And
therefore, that thing becomes a learning-device.

I want this brought out so that you don’t demean your bodies by calling
it a learning-device that will disappear when you don’t need to learn
anything anymore. It’s a learning-device because it isn’t what you have
determined it is, and what it Really Is, not only awaits your discovery,
but insists upon being recognized by you, because It’s God declaring
Himself as Himself. And for you to recognize it, is something you
ultimately have no choice about, even though you can resist recognizing
it for what it Is for a period of time through a private, personal use
of will. You see?

The whole Holy Spirit is a learning-tool. I mean all of our Nature that
we’re denying being held in trust, that whole thing is a learning-tool?

Absolutely . . .  absolutely.

Okay.

Continue . . .

Their purpose is merely to facilitate learning. The worst a faulty use
of a learning device can do is to fail to facilitate learning. It has no
power in itself to introduce actual learning errors. The body, if
properly understood, shares the invulnerability of the Atonement to
two-edged application.  

Yes.  In other words, it’s not available to be used positively or
negatively, not truly.

Continue . . .

This is not because the body is a miracle, but because it is not
inherently open to misinterpretation.  

It’s utterly simple. It’s utterly simple and doesn’t require
interpretation. It only requires that you allow yourself to be present
with it with a willingness to experience it as it truly Is. In other
words, to experience the Presence of God there with the Meaning God is
expressing of Himself right there.

Continue . . .

The body is merely part of your experience in the physical world. Its
abilities can be and frequently are overevaluated.  

Well yes, they are because just like the glow, the effulgence around the
Altar, if you are distracted from the Altar, and all you can see is the
glow, then you give it much more value and much more meaning than it
actually has. All it is, is the glow. The glow indicating the Presence
of a source of Light. The Light is what’s significant.

However, it is almost impossible to deny its existence in this world.
Those who do so are engaging in a particularly unworthy form of denial.
The term “unworthy” here implies only that it is not necessary to
protect the mind by denying the unmindful.  

Yes.

If one denies this unfortunate aspect of the mind’s power, one is also
denying the power itself.  

Continue . . .

All material means that you accept as remedies for bodily ills are
restatements of magic principles.  

And let’s look at this another way. Let us say that with your back to
the Altar, you have built a fortress, and you have built it with rock
and mortar. And you find that it will not withstand the ravages of time,
much less a bold assault on it. And so, you decide that it needs to have
some steel reinforcement. In other words, the remedy for the weakness of
the structure is to be achieved by using a stronger physical structure
to support it. That’s the use of magic. You try to correct the problem
by using a stronger belief in strength, rather than solving the problem
itself, which is that you have your back to the Altar.

Continue . . .

This is the first step in believing that the body makes its own illness.
It is a second misstep to heal it through non-creative agents. It does
not follow, however, that the use of such agents for corrective purposes
is evil.  

Now this, the rest of this paragraph is extremely important. And I’m
going to let you read it without interrupting.

Sometimes the illness has a sufficiently strong hold over the mind to
render a person temporarily inaccessible to the Atonement. In this case
it may be wise to utilize a compromise approach to mind and body, in
which something from the outside is temporarily given healing belief.
This is because the last thing that can help the non-right-minded, or
the sick, is an increase in fear. They are already in a fear-weakened
state. If they are prematurely exposed to a miracle, they may be
precipitated into panic. This is likely to occur when upside-down
perception has induced the belief that miracles are frightening.  

Indeed. This is perhaps one of the most practical statements you will
find anywhere in the Course. It’s grounding, and means that no one has
to go off the deep end, no one has to actually face more danger or more
sense of danger than they can bear in order to experience healing, in
order to experience relief, in order to experience clarification.

Divine Love always appears to you in the language of your present
awareness. It does not require you to stand taller than you feel capable
of.  The Holy Spirit, your divinity held in trust while you dally with
the ego, has the means of disclosing to you that which will reduce fear
and promote healing, even if it’s not the ultimate truth. This is also
very important for you to understand.

There are times that I have been accused of not being consistent from a
conversation with one person at one time, and a conversation with
someone else at another time, apparently talking about the same subject.
But the fact is that the truth was presented to each of them in language
that allowed for the greatest inner movement to occur, because it didn’t
raise their level of fear, but reduced it.

Let’s continue . . .

The value of the Atonement does not lie in the manner in which it is
expressed. In fact, if it is used truly, it will inevitably be expressed
in whatever way is most helpful to the receiver. This means that a
miracle, to attain its full efficacy, must be expressed in a language
that the recipient can understand without fear.  

I’m going to stop you there.

And how are you going to know what that is, without going through a full
psychological evaluation of the person you’re speaking to? You’re going
to have to assume that you don’t know. You are going to have to even
acknowledge that you don’t know. And you’re going to have to be willing
to allow for the fact that you personally don’t need to know, so that
you might abandon all attempts to know on your own, and take the time to
become still within yourself and ask, “What do I need to say? What is
the appropriate response? What would You say, Father?” Or ask the Holy
Spirit, or ask your Guide, or ask me. And then, because you don’t know
what the appropriate response should be, you share the response you get.

And what you get in one circumstance might be, “Sit down, close your
mouth, and be still for a moment,” which might not sound gentle, or
loving, or pacifying. But for that individual it will be perfect,
because that individual is feeling very scattered, very disconnected,
very unstable, and needs direction at that very moment; clear, simple
direction to follow so that that individual can become disentangled from
all of the confusion. Oh, somebody else might look at that and say, “Oh,
you’re being very controlling! How can that be healing?” You see? When
the fact is, that it’s not control at all. It’s the presentation of that
which meets the need for someone who at the moment doesn’t have the
inner strength and discipline to provide those simple directions for
themselves.

So sometimes what you end up saying won’t sound sweet. And other times
where the circumstances might seem to be quite the same and you are
dealing with an unruly individual, what you might find yourself saying
is, “I love you,” and walking up and giving a hug, even though the
individual has been displaying aggressive physical characteristics. And
that will be what helps that one to soften, settle down, become quiet,
and accomplish or end up doing what the words, “sit down, shut up,
[mean].” You see?

And this takes trust. But if you don’t dare to inquire, if you don’t
dare to turn to the Altar and make your connection there, then firmness
or softness expressed is just a manipulation arising out of ignorance
and one’s best assumption of what will work. And without the unction of
Love, there will be no transformation. You will not be a real agent for
change.

Continue . . .

This does not necessarily mean that this is the highest level of
communication of which he is capable. It does mean, however, that it is
the highest level of communication of which he is capable now. The whole
aim of the miracle is to raise the level of communication, not to lower
it by increasing fear.  

Now watch the ego, because the ego will come in there and say, “Oh,
here’s a way to improve your presence while your back is to the Altar.
Now you have a little tidbit of information. The whole aim of the
miracle is to raise the level of communication. Ah! Ah! I can grasp
that. We’re going to raise the level of communication.” And now you set
out to “bless” your Brothers with your best idea of raising the level of
communication, when what will actually raise the level of communication
is not the words that you end up saying, but the Love from which those
words arise. And the only way Love will give rise to words, is if you
have abandoned your independence and turned toward the Altar and said,
“Help! What is appropriate here? What fulfills Purpose? What will
uncover God more clearly right here?”

The only way any of you can be effective teachers, effective agents for
change is when you realize that you . . . none of you have a personal
capacity on your own to do good, period. That as long as you claim the
right of independence from God, with the very strong belief that God has
created you to be independent, you’re just going to be rearranging the
world. And you are going to further and extenuate the ignorance that
you’re already all suffering from.

To be an effective teacher is to not attempt to be a teacher at all, but
to be a humble servant; from the ego’s standpoint a humiliated servant.
Humility is a state in which there is no tension. Humility is a state in
which the capacity to be forceful doesn’t exist. Humility is where
willfulness has been laid aside for willingness—willingness to say, “Thy
Will be done.” Why? Not so that you can be controlled, but so that in
the absence of your trying to be controlling, the divine way things work
can register with you, and you can be in harmony with it, and thus be a
presence who is constantly glorifying God by not glorifying anything
else. In the absence of the attempt to glorify anything else, God is the
only thing that can show up.

[gestures] Microphone . . .

When we first started talking about the body, it’s talking about the
beautiful temple, and then you talked about reinforcing the armament
with steel, and it’s… is that the same activity, pretty much? I mean
whether we’re making it a beautiful temple or whether we’re reinforcing
it with steel, it’s the same activity.

As long as it’s being done with your back to the Altar, it can’t be
anything else.

Exactly. So it’s just sort of giving us different options of the way
that we turn our back to the Altar.

And in all cases, it will be a form of defense.

And if you get more holy and more spiritual so that you are creating a
beautiful temple, it’s because you have found others to join with in the
belief that such activity will protect you against something.  It will
protect you against violence. It will protect you against your ego. By
thinking loving thoughts and expressing loving thoughts, it will protect
you against the baser motives that are natural to human beings. And it
might even cause. . . 

(I’m sorry. This is me, Paul.)

. . . an evolutionary shift where mankind will start to move in a new
direction, physically, of course, as part of the physical universe, as
part of actual physical evolution. You see?

This is still occurring in the realm of ignorance. It’s still occurring
without having even thought of, or brought up, the idea that there is a
relationship between you and God, and there is a connection for you to
be experiencing. And that when you turn around toward God and open up to
that experience, that that’s going to bring you back into your Right
Mind, where evolutionary jumps are nonsense, and where behaving nicely
doesn’t mean a heck of a lot more than behaving badly, except that it’s
a little bit more comfortable for you in your ignorance.

I will tell you something: If everyone on this planet managed to find a
mutually-agreed-upon way to work together harmoniously, everyone would
be very grateful. And if given the opportunity to have ten thousand
years to experience it, they would find ultimately that it would be an
empty experience, because the connection with the Altar would not have
occurred yet, even though everyone worked together beautifully. And
Awakening, the evidence of Atonement would still be awaiting everyone. 

So at least tonight, everyone is a little bit clearer about what
Atonement isn’t. And that’s wonderful.

Raj, something that you don’t . . . that has occurred to me about what
you’re saying here this evening about what you did when you washed the
feet of [the disciples] indicating that we must be servants to each
other, that ego can’t wash the feet of another with love.

No. But it can feign love and wash the feet of others.

Yes. You are right. You are here to serve others, but you won’t be able
to serve each other transformationally until you yourselves ask God how
to serve each other transformationally.  It’s that simple.

What I meant when I brought this up is the feeling that comes when I
turn to God and we do this together. It’s the Love.

Indeed.

Of that expression, “I’m here to serve you.”

That is truly benign, and therefore provides the best opportunity for
the one you are serving to feel non-threatened, and for his or her fear
to be reduced, and for confusion to fade, and for intelligence to come
to the fore, and for learning to actually occur. Yes.

So it really becomes “We,” and no longer “I”?

Absolutely . . . yes.

The experience of these shifts going on in me, and the balance of . . .
I can . . . the miracle scaring me. It’s like right over here. I mean
it’s like right at the edge of it. It’s like if I was any more miracle
going on, it would frighten me. And yet I can . . . you know. And I got
it. I read in the book. And you say it. And we share our experiences. I
mean that’s a lot . . . the feelings that come with this Love that comes
through us. Like Wow! It catches your attention. Almost frightens you. I
mean we’re all like right there on the edge of all we can stand.
Shifting as fast as we can right now.

Indeed . . . indeed.

Judging everything less.

Yes.

More and more looks at the Altar.  It’s working.

It takes trust.  We can’t do any of this without trust.

Right.

And trust comes from leaning into the miracle, and letting it transform
you, and convey your safety, so that you relax a little bit more.
There’s a little less fear. And you can let in.

I have been privileged to be experiencing this of late.

Indeed.

And it’s just totally amazing!

Just don’t be too amazed. That’s a wonderful block to more. Amazed, to
stand in amazement is to say, in so many words, “This is unbelievable.”
And that’s a nice way to keep the unbelievable that’s beyond what you’ve
experienced from being let in and being believable.

That brings up a good point, because it’s the next level of recognition
of all these definitions or these habits of describing things.

Yes.

I mean that’s a very, very good point. [laughs] Unbelievable. That
declares it exactly what it is, which is not something I want to
entertain.

Right.  Yes.  We will call it an evening. We actually got through a
whole section.

HEALING AS RELEASE FROM FEAR  

And release from fear occurs as you turn away from that which is
fearsome and engages your ego responses, and turning toward the Altar,
so that you might reconnect with the Father’s Love that’s at the center
of the Altar being all there is of You. And by turning toward It, you
provide yourself with the opportunity of remembering your Self. And in
remembering your Self and embracing It, you become the Presence that
transforms, and you come back into your right Mind. Maybe only little by
little . . . but the only reason it’s little by little, is because more
will scare you shitless! [chuckles]

I love you all.

Chapter 2 – THE ILLUSION OF SEPARATION – Section: HEALING AS RELEASE
FROM FEAR (Raj did not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July
2003, therefore, there can be a lot of difference in the readings.)
Sparkly Book – p.30   /   JCIM – p.13   /   CIMS – p.26 Chapter 2 – THE
SEPARATION AND ATONEMENT – Section:  HEALING AS RELEASE FROM FEAR 1First
Edition  –  p. 19   /    Second Edition – p.23 2 Students – commenting
or asking a question.
