# Jan 2, 2005 T8.10 The Answer to Prayer

Session begins with T8.10.9

## Overview

Are you will to have healing? You need to be willing to put your
attention where it's needed, where healing will be facilitated, where
waking up can happen. It can't happen when you're still trying to fix up
part of your illusion.

You need to give your attention to the Place of Excellence in your
Brothers and Sisters rather than whatever ignorances they are expressing.

If you want healing you must give healing. *You get keep what you give.*

The *miracle* is the answer to prayer, it is a sudden shift of perception,
it is healing.

Go to the place you're least inclinded to give healing and that is to
your Brother and Sister because you use them as the justification for
not having healing.

**You must give healing to keep it.**

In your relationship with the Holy Spirit or the Father or with me you
can experience healing but it won't be permanent as long as you're
justifying not extending it to someone else. Because that's the way you
make it your own.

## From the Book

### To Believe in your brother is to accept and appreciate

To believe in your brother is to accept and appreciate the truth about
him, not the bad behavior. If there are signs of life you and there is
something you can identify with in those very basic terms then you can
be aware that whatever has been revealed to be True about you is also
true about him.

### What you do not believe you do not appreciate

If you do not apprecaite your brother you do not value him. If you
do not value him you will find him unworthy to be present with and be
involved with.

### Your judgment is never without reason

You express judgment of a brother to confuse and overwhelm in order to put him off
balance to put yourself in a position to influence him or to get from
him what you want.

### You judge because you're at the end of your rope and don't know
what to do

You don’t know what to do and are at a loss.
You say, “This one
is a stubborn one. Nothing that I do is heard. Nothing that I say is
heard. And nothing that I do is valued. I persist, and I persist, and I
persist, and they come up with one more thing.”

You've shifted to talking about them and covering up the fact that you
don't want to acknowledge that you don't know what to do.

### You give up because everything you tried hasn't worked

You stand at the edge of the pregnant void; this wonderful place where
you are primed for insight and revelation *if* you abandon the last
vestiges of control you were trying to bring into play, beneficently.

You truly need inspiration where you need to yield further into the
Place of Excelence in you, the Holy Spirit.

### You need to be healed of your emptiness and inability to be the
Presence of Love

Instead of blaming them and characterizing them in ferocious
terms, you need to take a deep breath and stop the judgment and
let go further into the Llace of Excellence in you in which Love is
inexhaustible.

If you don't you lash out, point the finger and tell them it's there
fault. You don't tell them that they pushed you to the edge of your
capacity to be the Presence of Love and you're scared to yield
further.

### You set a price in your judgment

You will want to extract something from them that will make up for
the fact they have not received all that you've done and for the fact
that they pushed you to discomfort of not knowing what to do.


