---
chapter: Three
ctitle: Retraining the Mind
title: Retraining the Mind
ref: T3.0
---

This is a course in MIND TRAINING. All learning involves attention
and study at some level. Some of the later parts of the course rest too
heavily on these earlier sections not to require their study. You will
also need them for preparation. Without this, you may become much too
fearful when the unexpected DOES occur to make constructive use of it.
However, as you study these earlier sections, you will begin to see some
of their implications, which will be amplified considerably later on.

The reason a solid foundation is necessary is because of the confusion
between fear and awe to which we have already referred, and which so
many people hold. You will remember that we said that awe is
inappropriate in connection with the Sons of God because you should not
experience awe in the presence of your equals. However, it was also
emphasized that awe IS a proper reaction in the presence of your
Creator. I have been careful to clarify my own role in the Atonement,
without either over- or understating it. I have also tried to do the
same in connection with yours. I have stressed that awe is NOT an
appropriate reaction to me because of my inherent equality.

Some of the later steps in this course, however, DO involve a more
direct approach to God Himself. It would be most unwise to start on
these steps without careful preparation, or awe will be confused with
fear, and the experience will be more traumatic than beatific. Healing
is of God in the end. The means are being carefully
explained to you. Revelation may occasionally REVEAL the end to you, but
to reach it the means are needed.

