---
chapter: Three
ctitle: Retraining the Mind
title: Special Principles for Miracle Workers
ref: T3.1
---

1.  The miracle abolishes the need for lower-order concerns. Since it is
    an out-of-pattern time interval, the ordinary considerations of
    time and space do not apply.When YOU perform a miracle, *I* will
    arrange both time and space to adjust to it.

2.  Clear distinction between what HAS BEEN created and what IS BEING
    created is essential. ALL forms of correction (or healing) rest on
    this FUNDAMENTAL correction in level perception.

3.  Another way of stating the above point is; – Never confuse right
    with wrong-mindedness. Responding to ANY form of miscreation with
    anything EXCEPT A DESIRE TO HEAL (or a miracle) is an expression
    of this confusion.

4.  The miracle is always a DENIAL of this error and an affirmation of
    the truth. Only right-mindedness CAN create in a way that has any
    real effect. Pragmatically, what has no real effect has no real
    existence. Its effect, then, is emptiness. Being without
    substantial content, it lends itself to projection in the improper
    sense.

5.  The level-adjustment power of the miracle induces the right
    perception for healing. Until this has occurred healing cannot be
    understood. Forgiveness is an empty gesture unless it entails
    correction. Without this, it is essentially judgemental rather
    than healing.

6.  Miraculous forgiveness is ONLY correction. It has NO element of
    judgement at all. “Father forgive them for they know not what they
    do” in no way evaluates WHAT they do. It is strictly limited to an
    appeal to God to heal their minds. There is no reference to the
    outcome of their misthought. THAT does not matter.

7.  The Biblical injunction “Be of one mind” is the statement for
    revelation-readiness. My OWN injunction “Do this in remembrance of
    me” is the request for cooperation from miracle-workers. It should
    be noted that the two statements are not in the same order of
    reality. The latter involves a time awareness, since to remember
    implies recalling the past in the present. Time is under MY
    direction, but Timelessness belongs to God alone. In time we exist
    for and with each other. In Timelessness we coexist with God.

