---
layout: page
title: What Symbols Mean
---

<a href="javascript:void();" id="return">Return to previous page</a>

The symbols preceding the item list on a page have the following meaning.

<ul class="fa-ul">
  <li>
   <i class="fa fa-fw fa-volume-up"></i>
      Audio is available with the item.
  </li>
  <li>
    <i class="fa fa-fw fa-clock-o"></i>
    Audio is available and timing information has been collected.
  </li>
  <li>
    <i class="fa fa-fw fa-microphone-slash"></i>
    No audio available for item where audio is expected.
  </li>
  <li>
    <i class="fa fa-fw fa-eye-slash"></i>
    The item is incompletely formated.
  </li>
  <li>
    <i class="fa fa-fw fa-search"></i>
    The item has been indexed and available for search.
  </li>
</ul>

### <i class="fa fa-clock-o"></i> Timing Data 

#### Highlight

Audio timing information enables a feature of the Library that
highlights and scrolls into view the paragraph being spoken by the
associated audio.

This makes it easy to read along with the audio as it plays. The audio
always adds a deeper dimension of communication not available with the
written text alone.

**Try it out**

Navigate to a page with timing data and press the <i class="fa
fa-volume-up"></i> symbol to display the audio player. Then press play
and observe what happens.

[Example from NWFFACIM Study Group](/nwffacim/2006/102106/)
<br/>
[Example from Way of the Heart](/wom/woh/l01/)

#### Play from Here

Timing data also enables the *Play from Here* feature found in the
sidebar. This allows you to begin audio playback from an arbitrary
paragraph and serves as a convenient way to fast forward.

**Try it out**

Navigate to a page with timing data, open the side bar by pressing the
*hamburger* icon at the upper left of the page, then select the *Play
from Here* menu option. That will display a <i class="fa fa-play"></i>
symbol next to each paragraph.

Press the symbol at the paragraph you want to begin listening.

**Note:** I am aware that the audio often doesn't sync exactly with the
paragraph as it is being read when *Play from Here* is used. The sync
discrepancy seems to be larger as the paragraph where playback begins is
further from the beginning of the page.

[Example from NWFFACIM Study Group](/nwffacim/2003/010203/)
<br/>
[Example from Way of Transformation](/wom/wot/l01/)

#### Play on Page Load

Timing data also enables the ability to scroll to a given paragraph and
automatically begin audio playback from that point after the page has
loaded. This is a very useful way to share quotes and other
inspirational items from a teaching with others.

**Try it out**

This link will load a page from *NWFFACIM Study Group* from October 21,
2006 and start playing audio from paragraph 31. Click here to test it
out: [ACIM Study Group: October 21, 2006](/nwffacim/2006/102106/?play=p32).

**We Need Your Help** to obtain timing information for all items with
associated audio. It's easy to do while you listen. See the guide for
[obtaining timing data here.](/about/timing/)

### <i class="fa fa-fw fa-eye-slash"></i> Incomplete Format

Items that are not completely formatted, for the most part, are in an
acceptable condition for reading but are still in need of attention. The
majority of items from the NWFFACIM ACIM Study Group fall into this
category.

Items must be formatted properly before they can be indexed and
referenced by searches. Completed formatting is also required before
timing information can be collected.

**We Need Your Help** to complete item formatting. This requires
experience using a text editor, not a word processor. Please contact me
using the contact form on the [about page](/about/) for more
information. Thanks!

<script>
  $("#return").on("click", function(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
    history.back();
  });
</script>

