---
layout: page
title: Obtaining Audio Timing Information
---

<a href="javascript:void();" id="return">Return to previous page</a>

You can support us by listening to the audio from *The Way of Mastery*
or the *Northwest Foundation for ACIM* and collecting timing data in the
process. Learn how to do that here.

## Step One

Find a teaching with audio you want to listen to. There are many
available from the *Way of Mastery* and the *NWFFACIM Study Group*.
Audio that needs timing information collected is indicated by the <i
class="fa fa-volume-up"></i> symbol as shown in this example.

![Need Timing](/public/img/cmi/no-timing.png)

## Step Two

Open the page containing the audio to capture and open the sidebar by
clicking the *hamburger* icon at the upper left of the page. Then click
the *Time Capture Off* menu option.

This will display a bullseye symbol, <i class="fa fa-bullseye"></i>, in
front of every paragraph. The first paragraph is different, it has a
checkmark, <i class="fa fa-check"></i>, instead.

Here's an example:

![Capture Enabled](/public/img/cmi/time-capture.png)

## Step Three

While the audio is playing, listen for the end of the current paragraph
and click the bullseye of the next paragraph after the current paragraph
is finished and before the next paragraph begins.

In other words, click the bullseye in the audio gap between paragraphs.
And do this for all paragraphs until the recording has finished playing.

When you click the bullseye it turns into a checkmark to indicate that
the time has been captured. If you mess up click the checkmark and it
will turn back to a bullseye and the captured time is deleted. You can
then press the *rewind* button on the audio player to back up and try
again. Each press of the rewind button will move 15 seconds back.

Here's an example:

![Audio Player](/public/img/cmi/audio-player.png)

## Step Four

When the audio is finished and you've clicked all the bullseyes one more
step is needed. The collected timing data must be sent to me before you
leave the page. This is easy to do.

1. Open the sidebar and click the <i class="fa fa-send-o"></i> symbol to
display the send dialog.

    ![Send Data](/public/img/cmi/send-time.png)

2. Then scroll down to the bottom of the dialog, optionally enter your
name and email address. Then press send. 

    ![Send Dialog](/public/img/cmi/send-dialog.png)

That's all there is to it.

Thanks in advance for your help. It is helpful indeed!

<script>
  $("#return").on("click", function(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
    history.back();
  });
</script>
