---
chapter: Twelve
ctitle: The Problem of Guilt
title: The Fear of Redemption
ref: T12.2
---

You may wonder why it is so crucial that you look upon your hatred and
realize its full extent. You may also think that it would be easy enough
for the Holy Spirit to show it to you and dispel it WITHOUT the need for
you to raise it to awareness yourself. Yet there is one more
complication which you have interposed between yourself and the
Atonement which you do not yet realize. We have said that no-one will
countenance fear if he RECOGNIZES it. Yet in your disordered state, you
are NOT afraid of fear. You do not like it, but it is not your desire to
attack which REALLY frightens you. You are not seriously disturbed by
your hostility. You keep it hidden because you are MORE afraid of what
it covers.

You could look even upon the ego’s darkest cornerstone without fear if
you did not believe that, WITHOUT the ego, you
would find within yourself something you fear even more. You are NOT
afraid of crucifixion. Your real terror is of REDEMPTION. Under the
ego’s dark foundation is the memory of God, and it is of THIS that you
are really afraid. For this memory would INSTANTLY restore you to your
proper place, and it is this place that you have sought to LEAVE.

Your fear of attack is nothing compared to your fear of love. You would
be willing to look even upon your savage wish to kill God’s Son if you
did not believe that it SAVES you from love. For this wish CAUSED the
separation. You have protected it because you do not WANT the separation
healed, and you realize that, by REMOVING the dark cloud that obscures
it, your love for your Father would impel you to answer his call and
leap into Heaven. You believe that attack is salvation to prevent you
from THIS. For still deeper than the ego’s foundation, and much stronger
than it will ever be, is your intense and burning love of God, and His
for you. This is what you REALLY want to hide.

In honesty, is it not harder for you to say “I love” than “I hate”? You
associate love with weakness and hatred with strength, and your own REAL
power seems to you as your real WEAKNESS. For you could not control your
joyous response to the call of love if you heard it, and the whole world
you think you control WOULD vanish. The Holy Spirit, then, seems to be
attacking your fortress, for you would shut out God, and He does not
will to BE excluded.

You have built your whole insane belief system because you think you
would be helpless in God’s Presence, and you would SAVE yourself from
His Love because you think It would crush you into nothingness. You are
afraid It would sweep you away from yourself, and make you little. For
you believe that magnitude lies in defiance, and that attack is
grandeur. You think you have made a world which God would destroy; and by
loving Him, which you DO, you would throw this world away, which you
WOULD. Therefore, you have used the world to COVER your love, and the
deeper you go into the blackness of the ego’s foundation, the closer you
come to the Love that is hidden there. AND IT IS THIS THAT FRIGHTENS
YOU.

You can accept insanity because you made it, but you cannot accept love
because you did NOT. You would rather be slaves of the
crucifixion than Sons of God in redemption. For your INDIVIDUAL death is
more valued than your living oneness, and what is GIVEN you is not so
dear as what YOU made. You are more afraid of God than of the ego, and
love cannot enter where it is not welcome. But hatred can, for it enters
of ITS will and cares not for yours.

The reason you must look upon your delusions and not keep them hidden is
that they do NOT rest on their own foundation. In concealment they
appear to do so, and thus they seem to be self-sustained. This is the
fundamental illusion on which they rest. For BENEATH them, and concealed
as long as THEY are hidden, is the loving mind that THOUGHT it made them
in anger. And the pain in this mind is so apparent, when it is
uncovered, that its need of healing cannot BE denied. Not all the tricks
and games you offer it can heal it, for here is the REAL crucifixion of
God’s Son.

And yet he is NOT crucified. Here is both his pain AND his healing, for
the Holy Spirit’s vision is merciful and His remedy is quick. Do not
HIDE suffering from His sight, but bring it gladly to Him. Lay before
His eternal sanity ALL your hurt, and LET Him heal you. Do not leave any
spot of pain hidden from His light, and search your minds carefully for
any thoughts which you may fear to uncover. For He will heal every
little thought which you have kept to hurt you, and cleanse it of its
littleness, restoring it to the magnitude of God.

Beneath all your grandiosity, which you hold so dear, is your real call
for help. For you call for love to your Father as your Father calls you
to Himself. In that place which you have hidden you will only to unite
with the Father, in loving remembrance of Him. You will find this place
of truth as you see it in your brothers, for though they may deceive
themselves, like you they long for the grandeur that is in them. And
perceiving it you will welcome it, and it will be YOURS. For grandeur is
the RIGHT of God’s Son, and NO illusions can satisfy him or save him
from what he IS. Only his love is real, and he will be content ONLY with
his reality.

Save him from his illusions that you may accept the magnitude of your
Father in peace and joy. But exempt no-one from your love, or you will
be hiding a dark place in your mind where the Holy Spirit is not
welcome. And you will exempt YOURSELF from His
healing power, for by not offering total love you will not be healed
completely. Healing must be as complete as fear, for love cannot enter
where there is one spot of fear to mar its welcome.

You who prefer specialness to sanity could not obtain it in your right
minds. You were at peace until you asked for special favor. And God did
not give it, for the request was alien to Him, and you could not ask
this of a Father Who truly loved His Son. Therefore you made of Him an
unloving father, demanding of Him what only such a father could give.
And the peace of God’s Son was shattered, for he no longer understood
his Father. He feared what he had made, but still more did he fear his
REAL father, having attacked his own glorious equality with Him.

In peace he needed nothing and asked for nothing. In war he DEMANDED
everything and FOUND nothing. For how could the gentleness of love
respond to his demands EXCEPT by departing in peace and returning to the
Father? If the Son did not wish to remain in peace, he could not remain
at all. For a darkened mind cannot live in the light, and it must seek a
place of darkness where it can believe it is where it is not. God did
not allow this to happen. Yet you DEMANDED that it happen, and therefore
believed that it was so.

To “single out” is to “make alone,” and thus MAKE LONELY. God did not do
this to you. Could He set you apart, KNOWING that your peace lies in His
oneness? He denied you only your request for pain, for suffering is not
of His creation. Having GIVEN you creation, He could not take it FROM
you. He could but answer your insane request with a sane answer which
would abide with you in your insanity. For His answer is the reference
point BEYOND illusions, from which you can look back on them and SEE
them as insane. But seek THIS place and you WILL find it, for love is in
you and will lead you there.

