---
chapter: Twelve
ctitle: The Problem of Guilt
title: Healing and Time
ref: T12.3
---

And now the reason why you are afraid of this course should be apparent.
For this is a course on love because it is about you. You have been told
that your function in this world is healing, and your function in Heaven
is creating. The ego teaches that your function on earth is destruction,
and that you have no function at all in
Heaven. It would thus destroy you here and bury you here, leaving you no
inheritance except the dust out of which it thinks you were made. As
long as it is reasonably satisfied with you, as its reasoning goes, it
offers you oblivion. When it becomes overtly savage, it offers you hell.

Yet neither oblivion nor hell is as unacceptable to you as Heaven. For
your definition of Heaven IS hell and oblivion, and the real Heaven is
the greatest threat you think you could experience. For hell and
oblivion are ideas which YOU made up, and you are bent on demonstrating
their reality to establish YOURS. If THEIR reality is questioned, you
believe that YOURS is. For you believe that ATTACK is your reality, and
that your destruction is the final proof that you were RIGHT.

Under the circumstances, would it not be more DESIRABLE to have been
wrong, even apart from the fact that you WERE wrong? While it could
perhaps be argued that death suggests there WAS life, no-one would claim
that it proves there IS life. Even the past life which death might
indicate could only have been futile if it must come to this, and NEEDS
this to prove that it was. You question Heaven, but you do not question
THIS. You could heal and be healed if you DID question it. And even
though you know not Heaven, might it not be more desirable than death?
You have been as selective in your questioning as in your perception. An
open mind is more honest than this.

The ego has a very strange notion of time, and it is with this notion
that your questioning might well begin. The ego invests heavily in the
past, and in the end believes that the past is the ONLY aspect of time
that is meaningful. You will remember that we said its emphasis on guilt
enables it to ensure its continuity by making the future LIKE the past,
and thus avoiding the present. By the notion of PAYING for the past in
the future the past becomes the DETERMINER of the future, making them
continuous WITHOUT an intervening present. For the ego uses the present
ONLY as a brief transition to the future, in which it brings the past TO
the future by interpreting the present in PAST terms.

NOW has no meaning to the ego. The present merely reminds it of past
hurts, and it reacts to the present as if it WERE the past. The
ego cannot tolerate RELEASE from the past, and although the past is no
more, the ego tries to preserve its image by responding AS IF it were
present. Thus it dictates reactions to those you meet now from a PAST
reference point, obscuring their present reality. In effect, if you
follow the ego’s dictates, you will react to your brothers as though
they were someone ELSE, and this will surely prevent you from perceiving
them as they ARE. And you will receive messages from them out of your
OWN past because, by making it real in the present, you are forbidding
yourself to LET IT GO. You thus deny yourself the message of release
that every brother offers you NOW.

The shadowy figures from the past are precisely what you must ESCAPE.
For they are not real, and have no hold over you unless you bring them
WITH you. They carry the spots of pain in your minds, directing you to
attack in the present in retaliation for a past that is no more. And
this decision is one of FUTURE pain. Unless you learn that past pain is
delusional, you are choosing a future of illusions and losing the
endless opportunities which you could find for release in the present.
The ego would PRESERVE your nightmares, and PREVENT you from awakening
and understanding that they ARE past.

Would you RECOGNIZE a holy encounter if you are merely perceiving it as
a meeting with your own past? For you are meeting no-one, and the
SHARING of salvation, which MAKES the encounter holy, is excluded from
your sight. The Holy Spirit teaches that you always meet YOURSELF, and
the encounter is holy because YOU are. The ego teaches that you always
encounter your past, and because your dreams WERE not holy the future
CANNOT be, and the present is without meaning. It is evident that the
Holy Spirit’s perception of time is the exact opposite of the ego’s. The
reason is equally clear, for they perceive the goal of time as
diametrically opposed.

The Holy Spirit interprets time’s purpose as rendering the need for it
unnecessary. Thus does He regard the function of time as temporary,
serving only his teaching function, which is temporary by definition.
HIS emphasis is therefore on the only aspect of time which CAN extend to
the infinite, for NOW is the closest approximation of eternity which
this world offers. It is in the REALITY of now, without past OR future,
that the beginning of the appreciation of eternity lies. For only now is
HERE, and IT presents the opportunities
for the holy encounters in which salvation can be found.

The ego, on the other hand, regards the function of time as one of
extending itself IN PLACE of eternity, for, like the Holy Spirit, the
ego interprets the goal of time as its own. The continuity of past and
future, under ITS direction, is the only purpose the ego perceives in
time, and it closes over the present so that no gap in its OWN
continuity can occur. ITS continuity, then, would KEEP you in time,
while the Holy Spirit would release you FROM it. It is HIS
interpretation of the means of salvation which you must learn to accept,
if you would share His goal of salvation for you.

You, too, will interpret the function of time as you interpret yours. If
you accept your function in the world of time as healing, you will
emphasize ONLY the aspect of time in which healing can occur. For
healing CANNOT be accomplished in the past, and MUST be accomplished in
the present to release the FUTURE. This interpretation ties the future
to the PRESENT, and extends the present rather than the past. But if you
interpret your function as destruction, you will lose sight of the
present and hold on to the past to ENSURE a destructive future. And time
WILL be as you interpret it, for of itself it is NOTHING.

