---
chapter: Twelve
ctitle: The Problem of Guilt
title: The Two Emotions
ref: T12.4
---

We have said that you have but two emotions, love and fear. One is
changeless but continually exchanged, being offered BY the eternal TO
the eternal. In this exchange it is extended, for it INCREASES as it is
given. The other has many forms, for the content of individual illusions
differs greatly. Yet they have one thing in common; they are all insane.
They are made of sights which are NOT seen and sounds which are NOT
heard. They make up a private world which CANNOT be shared. For they are
meaningful ONLY to their maker, and so they have no meaning at all. In
this world their maker moves alone, for only he perceives them.

Each one peoples his world with figures from his individual past, and it
is because of this that private worlds DO differ. Yet the figures that
he sees were NEVER real, for they are made up only of HIS reactions to
his brothers, and do not include their reactions to HIM. Therefore he
does not SEE that he made them, and that they
are not whole. For these figures have no witnesses, being perceived in
one separate mind only.

It is THROUGH these strange and shadowy figures that the insane relate
to their insane world. For they see ONLY those who remind them of these
images, and it is to THEM that they relate. Thus do they communicate
with those who are not there, and it is THEY who answer them. And no-one
hears their answer save him who called upon them, and he alone believes
they answered him. Projection makes perception and you CANNOT see beyond
it. Again and again have men attacked each other because they saw in
them a shadow figure in their OWN private world. And thus it is that you
MUST attack yourself first, for what you attack is NOT in others. Its
only reality is in your OWN mind, and by attacking others you are
literally attacking what is NOT THERE.

The delusional can be very destructive, for they do not recognize that
they have condemned THEMSELVES. They do not wish to die, yet they will
not let condemnation GO. And so they separate into their private worlds,
where everything is disordered, and where what is within appears to be
without. Yet what IS within they do not see, for the REALITY of their
brothers they CANNOT see.

You have but two emotions, yet in your private world you react to each
of them as though it were the OTHER. For love cannot abide in a world
apart, where when it comes it is not recognized. If you see your own
hatred AS your brother, you are not seeing HIM. Everyone draws nigh unto
what he loves, and recoils from what he fears. And you react with fear
to love, and draw away from it. Yet fear ATTRACTS you, and believing it
IS love, you call it to yourself. Your private world is filled with the
figures of fear you have invited into it, and all the love your brothers
offer you YOU DO NOT SEE. As you look with open eyes upon your world, it
MUST occur to you that you have withdrawn into insanity.

You see what is not there, and you hear what is soundless. Your
behavioral manifestations of emotions are the OPPOSITE of what the
emotions are. You communicate with no-one, and you are as isolated from
reality as if you were alone in all the universe. In your madness you
overlook reality COMPLETELY, and you see only your OWN split mind
everywhere you look. God calls you and you do not
hear, for you are preoccupied with your own voice. And the vision of
Christ is not in your sight, for you look upon yourself ALONE.

Little children, would you offer THIS to your Father? For if you offer
it to yourself you ARE offering it to Him. And He will NOT return it,
for it is unworthy of you because it is unworthy of Him. Yet He WOULD
release you from it and set you free. His sane answer tells you that
what you have offered yourself is not true, but HIS offering to you has
never changed. You who know not what you do CAN learn what insanity is,
and look beyond it. It is given you to learn how to DENY insanity, and
come forth from your private world in peace.

You will see all that you denied in your brothers BECAUSE you denied it
in yourself. For you will love them, and by drawing nigh unto them you
will draw them to yourself, perceiving them as witnesses to your reality
which you share with God. I am with THEM as I am with YOU, and we will
draw them from their private worlds, for as we are united so would we
unite with them. The Father welcomes all of us in gladness, and gladness
is what WE should offer HIM. For every Son of God is given you to whom
God gave HIMSELF. And it is God whom you must offer them, to recognize
His gift to YOU.

Vision depends on light, and you cannot see in darkness. Yet in the
darkness, in the private world of sleep, you SEE in dreams although your
eyes are closed. And it is here that what you see you MADE. But let the
darkness go and all you made you will no longer see, for sight of it
depends upon DENYING vision. Yet from denying vision it does not follow
that you CANNOT see. But this is what denial DOES, for by it you ACCEPT
insanity, believing you can make a private world and rule your OWN
perceptions. Yet for this light MUST be excluded. Dreams disappear when
light has come and you can SEE.

Do not seek vision through YOUR eyes, for you MADE your way of seeing
that you might see in darkness, and in this you are deceived. BEYOND
this darkness, and yet still WITHIN you, is the vision of Christ, Who
looks on all in light. Your vision comes from fear, as His from love.
And He sees FOR you as your witness to the real world. He is the Holy
Spirit’s manifestation, looking always on
the real world, and calling forth its witnesses and drawing them unto
YOU. For He loves what He sees within you, and He would EXTEND it. And
He will not return unto the Father until He has extended your perception
even unto Him. And there perception is no more, for He has returned you
to the Father with Him.

You have but two emotions, and one you made and one was given you. Each
is a WAY OF SEEING, and different worlds arise from their different
visions. See through the vision that is given you, for through Christ’s
vision He beholds Himself. And seeing what He is, He knows His Father.
Beyond your darkest dreams He sees God’s guiltless Son within you,
shining in perfect radiance which is undimmed by your dreams. And this
YOU will see as you look with Him, for His vision is His gift of love to
you, given Him of the Father FOR you.

The Holy Spirit is the light in which Christ stands revealed. And all
who would behold Him can see Him, for they have ASKED for light. Nor
will they see Him ALONE, for He is no more alone than they are. Because
they saw the son they have risen in Him to the Father. And all this will
they understand because they looked within and saw beyond the darkness
the Christ in them, and RECOGNIZED Him. In the sanity of His vision they
looked upon themselves with love, seeing themselves as the Holy Spirit
sees them. And WITH this vision of the truth in them came all the beauty
of the world to shine upon them.

