---
title: Apr 13, 2014  
ref: T15.4 Practicing the Holy Instant ( needs formatting )
---

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

Well, are things going smoothly for everyone or do things seem to be
more rugged than they used to be?  Are situations arising which seem
overwhelming, not easy to deal with?  Does it seem as though difficult
situations are not yielding as quickly and easily as they used to?  Do
things seem generally more complicated?  And do these factors discourage
you, do they engage you in negativity?  And do they engage you in the
attempt to gain authority over them?

Of course, the answer is “Yes.”  

Some of you have been caught in this mode for days, weeks or even some
months without finding the relief that used to come so easily.  That’s
why we’re going back in the book to this section entitled: 

PRACTICING  THE  HOLY  INSTANT.

If you go back and listen to the Study Groups that have been held over
the last three or four years, you will find that almost without fail the
holy instant has been a significant part of each discussion—almost
monotonously so. 

But there is a reason.  And the reason is that the holy instant is the
threshold of the elements of Atonement.  Again, the holy instant is the
threshold of the elements of Atonement.  There you go.  It’s so simple.
It’s so uncomplicated.  There are not many parts to it: The holy
instant.

Going into the Book:

This course is not beyond IMMEDIATE learning, unless you prefer to
believe that what God wills takes time. And this means only that you
would RATHER delay the recognition that His Will is so.

Well, I’m sharing this tonight because it’s something Paul is needing to
learn more significantly than ever before.  And so I’m taking the
opportunity to teach him along with everyone else the simplicity of it
so that release from distress and frustration and anger can be had.

When it says: 

. . . this means only that you would RATHER delay the recognition that
His Will is so . . .

. . . you, like Paul might be likely to say: “Oh, that’s not true.  I
would not rather delay it.  I’m certainly not saying ‘God hold off.’”

But the simple fact is, that if you aren’t experiencing the holy
instant—the instantaneous nature of being in the holy instant—it is
because . . .

. . . you would rather delay the recognition that His will is so.

And how do you do that?  You do it by exercising your will.  You
exercise it by choosing to listen to yourself instead of listening to
the Father or the Holy Spirit or your Guide.

“Sure,” you say, “I go to my Guide and I ask questions and I talk to my
Guide.”  But let me ask you something:  How often when you’re talking to
your Guide are you telling your Guide what you want Him or Her to hear?
How much of the time are you asking your Guide to listen to you?

Well, I promise you, if you’re not getting the answer  that resolves the
problem, you are doing that.  You’re making too much noise.  You’re
filling up the arena with your voice, your concepts, your will.  And
that’s not going into the holy instant.

I’m going to read again:

This course is not beyond IMMEDIATE learning, unless you prefer to
believe that what God wills takes time. And this means only that you
would RATHER delay the recognition that His Will is so. The holy instant
is THIS one and EVERY one. The one you WANT it to be it IS. The one you
would not have it be is lost to you.

That doesn’t mean that it wasn’t the one that could have been the holy
instant.  It simply means that because you chose for that instant not to
be the holy instant, its promise escaped you.  What it is passed by your
attention because you weren’t giving your attention.
 
YOU must decide on when it is.

You hear that?

YOU must decide on when it is.

When the holy instant is—that you’re going to let be the holy instant.
You see?  

It’s never about the circumstances “out there.”  It’s never about the
complexity that you see in them.  It’s never about the mean-spiritedness
that might be being expressed in your environment or in your world.  It
all boils down to the simplicity of whether or not you have decided that
this instant is going to be the holy instant.

Simple!  Utterly simple.  But although it’s utterly simple, because it’s
the threshold of the elements of Atonement, it is the most significant
thing available to you in your existence, because it impels, it promotes
Atonement, Awakening—you coming back into your right Mind, you becoming
the Sane Expression of the divine intelligence called God.

Delay it not.

The book says. 

Delay it not. For beyond the past and future, in which you will not find
it, it stands in shimmering readiness for your acceptance.

Whether you’re giving your attention to it or not, whether you’re
allowing it or not, it’s there . . .

. . . in shimmering readiness for your acceptance.

Oh-h . . . but I know, you have to attend to the mean-spiritedness that
is going on around you, instead of asking, “Father,” or “Holy Spirit,
how do I step into the holy instant?”  You’re saying, “Father, Holy
Spirit, tell me how to deal with this mean-spiritedness!  Help me to
deal with the complications that I see in what’s going on.”  Or you’re
saying, “I’m not even going to ask because I know this is an impossible
situation and there is no answer . . . I know it!  I cannot conceive of
an answer, it is an impossible situation!”  You see?

That’s not entering into the holy instant.  That’s doing a rant! And
expecting your Guide or the Holy Spirit to listen to you—to listen to
the idiocy of your rant—instead of saying, “Father, Holy Spirit, what’s
the truth here?”

So . . . 

. . . it stands in shimmering readiness for your acceptance. Yet you
cannot bring it into glad awareness while you do not want it, for it
holds the whole release from littleness. 

You want to know something?  When you are engaging as an ego, you think
that littleness is gotten rid of by your expressing grand, great
authority—power of your own which you exercise forcefully.  That feels
to you like being BIG. 

But like a light-bulb, like a lamp unplugged from the wall, no matter
what it does to try to imagine that it’s lit, it can’t be lit if it’s
not plugged in.  And so the attempt to express authority through force
and willfulness constitutes littleness, not the opposite.

Your practice must therefore rest upon your willingness to let all
littleness go.

Well, I know you probably think that littleness has to do with being
small.  But letting all littleness go means letting all of your personal
private judgments go—releasing them and not attempting to exercise or
practice them.  

Letting littleness go is letting your small-mindedness go in favor of
saying, “Father, infinite Mind of all that Is, fill me with what You
already placed in me the moment You created me by virtue of the fact
that You withheld nothing of what You Are from me.  Illumine to me the
truth about me so that I don’t imagine that I have to have solutions of
my own—determinations, authorizations of my own.  Let me feel my
infinite wholeness by illuminating it to me.”

The instant in which magnitude will dawn upon you is but as far away as
your DESIRE for it. 

Well, I know . . . you desire it, you say you desire it, and yet you
continue to anchor yourself in your misperceptions of everything and
using those misperceptions as the basis for listening for answers.  But
as long as you are basing the answers that will come on your
misperceptions, you are not listening where resolution can arise from.
It’s that simple.

And so, the necessity is to abandon any imagined authority that you
think you have or that you must exercise.  And you must become humble.
And you must say, “Father,” or “Holy Spirit, what is the truth here from
Your vantage point, separate and apart from any concepts or beliefs I
have?”

The instant in which magnitude will dawn upon you is but as far away as
your DESIRE for it. As long as you desire it not, and cherish littleness
instead, by so much is it far from you. By so much as you want it will
you bring it nearer.

Wanting it then means actually engaging in releasing your devotion to
your best judgments and your ideas and your goals and your agendas.

By so much as you want it will you bring it nearer. Think not that you
can find salvation in your own way and HAVE it.

You see?  Now I’m going to suggest something.  What we’re reading
tonight is very simply put.  It is not convoluted, complex or difficult
to understand.  When you find yourselves bound by a feeling of
overwhelm, of being trapped in a situation that there’s no resolve for,
come to this place in the book.  Because no matter how overwhelmed you
might be with the complexities you think are there to be dealt with, the
simplicity of this will be able to register with you. 

It’s very important.

Once you let it sink in that the answer is simple, you will relax and
you will stop trying to do what’s complicated and what will not work.  

Listen to this:

Give over EVERY plan that you have made for your salvation in exchange
for God’s. His will content you, . .

[He repeats] His will content you, and there is nothing else that can
bring you peace. For peace is of God, and of no-one beside Him. 

So peace is of God.  It’s not of you.  It’s not of your best judgments.
It’s not of your worst judgments.  It has nothing to do with anything
you have come up with or can come up with all by yourself.

It is the act of independence.  If you’ll remember, the divorce that was
gotten from the Father in the Beginning, so to speak, that brought forth
two things: Fear and guilt.  Fear and guilt combine to make all of the
complexities that disturb you, depress you and cause you to give up
hope, cause you to abandon the holy instant, cause you to not to engage
in the simplicity.

Be humble before Him, and yet great IN Him.  And value no plan of the
ego before the plan of God. For you leave empty your place in . . .

. . . what? 

. . . His plan, which you must fulfill if you would join with me, by
your decision to join in any plan BUT His.

Again: 

For you leave empty your place in His plan, . . . by your decision to
join in any plan BUT His.

It’s not your role to leave your place empty.  It’s your role to fulfill
your place if you would join with me.  

I call you to fulfill your holy part in the plan that He has given to
the world for . . .

. . . what?

. . . its release from littleness.

You see?  Right now if you’re in the middle of excruciating of
long-standing stress and distress, remember this:

I call you to fulfill your holy part in the plan that He has given to
the world for its release from littleness.

You see?  You either think there’s no release from the problems or you
think that the release will only come from some force you personally
privately exert.  And for the most part, you are convinced that you
probably don’t have what it takes to accomplish that.  That’s how
debilitating it is.  But the Answer is simple.  

Again:

I call you to fulfill your holy part . . .

I call you to be the holy Son or Daughter of God that you Are right now
when you’re feeling overwhelmed and you are insistent on your awful
point of view.

I call you to fulfill your holy part in the plan that He has given to
the world for its release from littleness. God would have His host abide
in perfect freedom.

Who is His Host?  You.

Every allegiance to a plan of salvation that is apart from Him
diminishes the value of His Will for you in your own minds. And yet it
is your mind that IS the host to Him. 

Would you learn how perfect and immaculate is the holy altar on which
your Father has placed Himself?

Where is that holy altar?  Right in the center of you.  That’s where the
Father has placed Himself, because you are the Father’s Self-expression.
You are the Father in Expression.  He’s placed Himself in you by being
all there is of you. . . you holy Son or Daughter of God.

Would you learn how perfect and immaculate is the holy altar on which
your Father has placed Himself?

Well, not if you insist on holding onto your best judgments and your
confidences and your agendas and how you think things ought to go.

This you will recognize in the holy instant in which you willingly and
gladly . . .

. . . what?

. . .  give over every plan but His. For there lies peace, perfectly
clear because you have been willing to meet its conditions. You can
claim the holy instant any time and anywhere you want it.

Oh I know, again you say, “I want it, I want it!”  But no, what you
really want still, is the right to have your opinion and your
judgment—your self-righteous assessment.  “Well, this unfoldment is
certainly isn’t very convenient, and it certainly isn’t comfortable, it
can’t possibly be divine!”

Well there you are, playing God asserting an authorization that you’ve
made up.  But:

You can claim the holy instant any time and anywhere you want it.

And what will tell you whether you want it or not, is whether you’re
holding on tightly to your best judgments and your self-righteous
indignation and your authority.  If you’re holding on to them you don’t
want the holy instant.  That’s what that means.

In your practice, try to give over every plan you have accepted for
finding magnitude in littleness.

Remember, you think that magnitude comes from the expression of private
personal force, an authority that you have somehow mustered up and
brought into play for the purpose of controlling the situation or the
individuals in the situation.  That’s what you are calling
magnitude—that so-called capacity—but it’s inseparable from the
littleness because it’s you unplugged from your Source.

In your practice, try to give over every plan you have accepted for
finding magnitude in littleness.   IT IS NOT THERE. Use the holy instant
only to recognize that you alone CANNOT know where it is, and can only
deceive yourself. 

You hear that?  

Use the holy instant only to recognize that you alone . . .

. . . all by yourself, privately, secretly . . .

. . . CANNOT know where it is, and can only deceive yourself.

Now that might sound depressing, but the clarity of it is enlightening.
Because once you realize that you can’t have it on your own, then it
becomes clear to you that the only way you can have it is when you are
joined in the holy instant with the Holy Spirit or your Father.  And you
are reaching out to Them for Their Perspective because it’s the
Perspective They have placed in you since the beginning, which is yours
and is therefore part and parcel of your Sanity, which is your peace of
mind and your joy and your capacity to Love.

I stand within the holy instant, as clear as you would have me. 

And I’m going to add:  “no more and no less.”

I stand within the holy instant, as clear as you would have me.  And the
extent to which you learn to be willing to accept me is the measure of
the time in which the holy instant will be yours. 

In other words, if it takes a long time for you to do it, the holy
instant will take that long to be yours.  If you accept me now, now the
holy instant is yours.  You see?  It’s very simple.  It’s very black and
white, uncomplicated and requires one decision . . . that’s all!  It
doesn’t require arguments.  It doesn’t require negotiations.  It just
requires a simple decision now.

I call to you to make the holy instant yours at once, for the release
from littleness in the mind of the host of God . . .

. . . you . . .

. . . depends on willingness, and NOT on time. 

You see?  The willingness to go ahead and say, “Yes” now.  “Yes I accept
You now.  I let You in now.  I listen to You now and nothing else.”

The reason why this course is simple is that TRUTH is simple. Complexity
is of the ego, and is nothing more than the ego’s attempt to obscure the
obvious. 

Listen to this:

You could live forever in the holy instant, BEGINNING NOW . . .

. . . not tomorrow, not a week from tomorrow, not a year from now.

You could live forever in the holy instant, BEGINNING NOW and reaching
to eternity, but for a very simple reason. Do not obscure the simplicity
of this reason, for if you do, it will be only because you prefer not to
recognize it, and not to let it go. The simple reason, simply stated, is
this: The holy instant is a time in which you receive and GIVE perfect
communication. This means, however, that it is a time in which your mind
is OPEN, both to receive and give. It is the recognition that all minds
ARE in communication. It therefore seeks to CHANGE nothing, but merely
to ACCEPT everything. 

In order for your mind to be open, both to receive and give, you must
not be bringing with you any willfulness, any self-assertive authority.
How can you possibly be in harmony with Creation?  How can you possibly
be in harmony with your Source that is fulfilling you in every moment,
if you are harboring a perception or a concept or a determination that
you have made up out of “whole cloth” through the use of imagination and
committed to.  You see?

So therefore, when you are in a place of openness to give and receive,
you seek . . .

. . . to CHANGE nothing, but merely to ACCEPT everything. 

Now let’s be very clear here:  It doesn’t mean that you will not seek to
change anything, and you will let disease be disease, and you will let
injury be injury and you will let death continue.  It doesn’t mean that
you accept all that is un-God-like, all that has nothing to do with
Eternal Life, has nothing to do with the nature of God, it doesn’t mean
that you accept that, and don’t try to change it.  If you think it does,
that is something that you have made up.  It’s a concept that was not
given to you by the Father or the Holy Spirit.  Exactly the opposite is
what you learn from practicing the holy instant.  

This is important.

Now I understand that there are those, especially students of the
Course, that say, “Well, the body . . . everything that could be
injured, everything that can become ill, everything that dies is
illusion.  And you don’t try to fix illusion, you don’t try to fix
illusion up.

I’ll tell you something:  Illusion is delusion.  And delusion is a
misperception of something not an actuality.  And that of which the
misperception is a misperception is the only thing there is:  Creation,
God being All-There-Is.  In the holy instant you experience Creation as
it is and you do not try to change it.  You do accept it.  But right now
in your independent frame of mind, having gotten a divorce from your
Father so that you could make up the rules, you have attempted to change
everything and you’re living with the consequences.

The practice of the holy instant is engaging in the abandonment of what
you have made up . . . by what?   Not giving your attention to what
you’ve made up and trying to get rid of it, but by turning your
attention from what you have made up to the Father, to the Source of
your being, or to the Holy Spirit so that you might enquire as to the
divine Perspective which has already been placed in you, but which
you’re not utilizing because you’re getting so much damned excitement
out of making your own decisions as well as having all of the suffering
that accompanies it because you’re in a state of self-denial.  

You are being what you were not created to be, and you think you are
practicing capabilities that were never given you.  God did not give you
the capacity to be at odds with yourself, Creation, or God Himself.

So . . . 

How can you do this when you would prefer to have PRIVATE thoughts, and
KEEP them? 

If you turn to the Holy Spirit for answers but you refuse to abandon
your private thoughts . . . tough luck! 

The only way you could do THAT is to DENY the perfect communication that
makes the holy instant what it is. 

Again:

The only way you could do THAT is to DENY the perfect communication that
makes the holy instant what it is.  You believe that it is possible to
harbor thoughts you would not share, and that salvation lies in keeping
your thoughts to yourself ALONE. 

And you use your thoughts to curse Creation.  You curse Creation by
defining it different from what God is Being It.


For in private thoughts, known only to yourself, you think you find a
way to keep what you would HAVE alone, and share what YOU would share. 

As I said, you go to the Holy Spirit or the Father to have Them listen
to what you would share.  And that’s not the way it works.  That’s what
happened when you got the divorce in the so-called beginning of the
illusion.  

And then you wonder why it is that you are not in full communication
with those around you, and with God Who surrounds ALL of you together. 

Well, hey, if you are holding on to private thoughts and keeping them
private and not sharing them, you’re denying communication itself—you
are disallowing it.

Every thought you would keep hidden shuts communication off because you
would HAVE it so. 

Again, your argument is, “No, I would not have it so!”  “I never thought
that.”  “I never would choose to do that.”  But the simple fact is that
if you are not confronting your day, or engaging with your day joined
with the Holy Spirit’s Perspective, it’s because you would have it so.
Because you can’t have communication that way, and as long as you’re
insisting upon that, you will not have communication.  Because you would
have it so, and you would have it so by virtue of not joining and
asserting your private thoughts as the law—as the word that everything
must revolve around.

It is impossible to recognize perfect communication while BREAKING
communication holds value to you. 

And now you can begin to see that breaking communication is what you’ve
been engaged in, although you didn’t have the words to define it as what
it truly was.  But now you do and it makes it simpler.  And that’s why
we are going over this again . . . because it’s time for the difficulty
of the times you’re in to become powerless over you, unable to influence
you in any way, so that you might engage in the holy instant—the very
simple act—and become free and let the elements of Atonement move in you
and move you.

Ask yourselves honestly, "Would I WANT to have perfect communication, .
.

. . . it’s a good question.  And you would say, “Yes,” except that you
don’t if you also want to hold onto your arguments—the arguments you
have made up with your own private thoughts.  As long as you are holding
thoughts privately you are un-joined, and the perfect communication that
comes from joining cannot be experienced.

Ask yourselves honestly, "Would I WANT to have perfect communication, .
.

Paul has had to ask himself that question several times during the last
few weeks.  And sometimes he has not wanted perfect communication
because he has wanted me or the Holy Spirit to understand his point of
view.  And that’s not the way perfect communication occurs.

Ask yourselves honestly, "Would I WANT to have perfect communication,
and am I wholly willing to let everything that interferes with it go
forever?" If the answer is no, . .

. . . you see?  And here is the simplicity of it:

If the answer is no, then the Holy Spirit’s readiness to give it to you
is not enough to make it yours, for you are not ready to SHARE it with
Him. And it cannot come into a mind that has decided to oppose it. 

Be willing to look at yourselves squarely.  Look at your mental behavior
squarely.  Honestly assess whether you are being mean-spirited,
tight-fisted, small-minded, because you feel that there is going to be
some benefit from it.  And of course, the primary benefit from it is
that you think it’s going to make you big, that it’s going to give you
magnitude and wipe out your vulnerability, make you safe, give you
peace.  But you’re using the wrong tool.  You’re using the tool that
takes away your peace and insures your vulnerability until you abandon
it.

And it cannot come into a mind that has decided to oppose it. For the
holy instant is given and received with EQUAL willingness, being the
acceptance of the single Will that governs ALL thought. 

Now, you are Loved.  Listen to this:

The necessary condition for the holy instant does NOT require that you
have no thoughts which are not pure. 

I will tell you, if it did require that, you would be overwhelmed and
you would have no resource to get out of it.

The necessary condition for the holy instant does NOT require that you
have no thoughts which are not pure. But it DOES require that you have
none that you would KEEP. 

You see?  You don’t have to get rid of them, you just have to be willing
to let go of them.  And the willingness to let go of them occurs when
you’re actually holding your hands out open with a desire to receive
from your joining with me or with the Holy Spirit.

Innocence is not of your making. It is given you the instant you would
HAVE it. 

Ah-h . . . that would imply wouldn’t it, that when you are engaged in
your own private thoughts you are not engaged in innocent activity.  Of
course, the activity you’re engaged in is imaginary, so any guilt that
you might be experiencing is also illusory.   So you’re not trapped in
any way.

Innocence . . . is given you the instant you would HAVE it. 

The instant you would let it in.

Yet it would not be Atonement if there were no NEED for Atonement. You
will not be able to accept perfect communication as long as you would
HIDE it from yourself. For what you would hide IS hidden from you. 

And right now you’re hiding it from yourself.  You’re frustrated, you’re
feeling vulnerable, you say because of everything going on around you.
And even your depressed, angry, frustrated thoughts that you know aren’t
really serving you, but you think you have no other choice and that
feeling them is serving you in some way in giving you magnitude.

For what you would hide IS hidden from you. 

In your practice, then, . .

. . . practice of what?  The holy instant—this one simple thing that we
have been talking about for years, and which we’re revisiting with
greater clarity tonight.

In your practice, then, try only to be vigilant against deception, and
seek not to protect the thoughts you would keep unto yourself. 

Be willing to let them be meaningless, even though they feel meaningful
to you.  Let them feel meaningless so that you can have reason to open
up to and reach for what is truly meaningful.

Let the Holy Spirit’s purity shine them away, . .

You see?  Again, I want to point out, what you want is for the Holy
Spirit to shine away the thoughts that you would keep to yourself.
That’s the Answer to the problem you think is constituted of complex
circumstances and situations out there in the world that you can do
nothing about, that have nothing to do with you except that you must
suffer from them.  Those things out there are not what you are to
address.  What you are to address is what you are using as the source of
your information . . . the Holy Spirit or your orphan mentality.

Let the Holy Spirit’s purity shine them away, and bring all your
awareness to the readiness for purity He offers you. Thus will He make
you ready to acknowledge that you ARE host to God, and hostage to no-one
and nothing.

You see?  You are Loved.  And you will know it when you will shift what
you’re giving your attention to.  And the instant you do it, you will
instantly experience the healing, the clarity, the Sanity, the Movement
of the elements of Atonement.

Remember the simplicity of this so that you don’t suffer a moment longer
unnecessarily because you’re addressing the wrong thing with the wrong
method.

I love you all.  And I look forward to being with you next time.

Chapter 15 – Section: PRACTICING THE HOLY INSTANT Sparkly Book – p.356
/   JCIM – p.149  /   CIMS – p.299 First Edition  –  p. ?    /    Second
Edition – p.309
