---
title: "Future"
xbg: "#e6ecf5"
xbg: "#b0c4de"
xbg: "#7a9cc7"
bg: "#4874ad"
xcolor: "black"
color: "white"
fa-icon: heart-o
permalink: /:categories/:title/
categories: landing
---
{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

## Future Plans

The Christ Mind Library is growing into an online repository for
transformational material that offers *feet on the ground*, *down to
earth*, *no bullshit*, guidance for walking this world awake &ndash;
awake to the never ending embrace of Creation that is vibrantly alive
and always new.

Features will be added to make the library easy to access and it's
materials easy to share. 

Sources of information from any origin are welcome here as long as they
align with the basic teachings of Christ Mind, some of which are:

- I am the Holy Child of God, forever free and forever loved. There
  is no sin and there has been no mistake.

- My life *is* as I have desired it to be and all power under Heaven and
  Earth is available to me to make it as I would have it be.

- The recognition of innocence and the cultivation of deep self honesty
  reveals a pathway that organically flows to the experience of Christ
  Mind.

In addition to materials whose origin is *beyond this world*, such as *A
Course of Love* and *A Course in Miracles* and others, as yet undiscovered,
the Library will include inspiration from the application of
Christ Mind teaching occurring to transform our world.

Let the trumpet sound!

Please send me your suggestions through the [<i class="fa
fa-envelope"></i> contact form](/about/). Thank you.



