---
title: "Library"
color: "white"
bg: "#62497a"
permalink: /:categories/:title/
categories: landing
fa-icon: "book"
---

## The Library

The library contains teachings that have a similar theme but
differ in the way the ideas are expressed. Taken together, these
differences offer a broad and well-rounded view of the material
expressed. It's very much like having the ability to walk around and
look at all aspects of a beautiful work of art instead of viewing it
from only one perspective.

Christ Mind teachings tend to 'sink in' over time and what was thought
to be fully understood is, six months later, seen in an entirely
different light. This is because, as it says in *A Course in Miracles*,
that:

> Words are symbols of symbols twice removed from Reality.
{: .landing-bq-color-yellow}

Words are important and are the way in which concepts are communicated
but the goal of Christ Mind teachings is not an understanding of the
words but an experience of the Reality they point to. In this way the
meaning of the words is *known* beyond concept and their truth apparent.

<!--
Reference the study guide
-->

Currently, there are three sources of Christ Mind teachings in the library
which is still under construction.

---

### *The Way of Mastery*

*The Way of Mastery* material is the result of a collaboration beginning
in 1987 between Jayem (Jon Marc Hammer) and Jeshua, also known as Jesus.
The five core texts that have resulted from this partnership are:

- [*The Jeshua Letters*](/wom/intro/tjl/)

    Jayem's account of his first meetings with Jeshua and the beautiful
    introduction to the pathway of awakening revealed in their
    conversation.

- [*The Way of the Servant*](/wom/intro/wos/)

    A poetic description of the journey of awakening taken from
    inception to recognition of self as the servant &ndash; one who walks this
    world awake.

- The core teaching &ndash; a compilation of a three year period of monthly messages.
    - [ Year One: *The Way of the Heart* ](/wom/intro/woh/)
    - [ Year Two: *The Way of Transformation* ](/wom/intro/wot/)
    - [ Year Three: *The Way of Knowing* ](/wom/intro/wok/)

Channeled sessions given by Jeshua prior to *The Way of the Heart*, called
[*The Early Years*](/wom/intro/early/), are available here as well.

[Q&A sessions](/wom/intro/questions/) occurring after a lesson are
included here and grouped together for easy reference.

Additionally, the original recording of each session is available along
side of transcript. Look for the <i class="fa fa-volume-up"></i> symbol.

---

### Northwest Foundation for *ACIM* ([NWFFACIM](/nwffacim/intro/nwffacim/))

Since 1982, Raj and Paul Tuttle have been collaborating and sharing a
very down to earth and practical perspective on *A Course in Miracles*.
Paul has written two books that chronicle his relationship with Raj,
they are:

- [You *Are* the Answer: A Journey of Awakening](/nwffacim/intro/yaa)
  describes Paul's interaction with Raj when they first met.
- [Graduation: The End of Illusions](/nwffacim/intro/grad) updates
  Paul's journey with Raj nine years after they first met.

Raj and Paul have been hosting a weekly *ACIM* study group since 2002
from which the audio and transcripts are available in the library.
Imagine the clarity offered when attending a study group given by the
author himself!

Study group material is sectioned by year and available here:

**Please Note**: While all study group sessions are available, most need
editing to improve readability.

- [Study Group Introduction](/nwffacim/intro/acim/)
- Group Sessions from [2002](/nwffacim/intro/2002/)
- Group Sessions from [2003](/nwffacim/intro/2003/)
- Group Sessions from [2004](/nwffacim/intro/2004/)
- Group Sessions from [2005](/nwffacim/intro/2005/)
- Group Sessions from [2006](/nwffacim/intro/2006/)
- Group Sessions from [2007](/nwffacim/intro/2007/)
- Group Sessions from [2008](/nwffacim/intro/2008/)
- Group Sessions from [2009](/nwffacim/intro/2009/)
- Group Sessions from [2010](/nwffacim/intro/2010/)
- Group Sessions from [2011](/nwffacim/intro/2011/)
- Group Sessions from [2012](/nwffacim/intro/2012/)
- Group Sessions from [2013](/nwffacim/intro/2013/)
- Group Sessions from [2014](/nwffacim/intro/2014/)
- Group Sessions from [2015](/nwffacim/intro/2015/)
- Group Sessions from [2016](/nwffacim/intro/2016/)

---

### *ACIM* Sparkly Edition

The [*Sparkly Edition of A Course in Miracles*](/acim/intro/acim/), also
known as the Thetford Editon, is available here as the foundation of the
Library.

This edition includes:

1.  Text

    The [*Text*](/acim/intro/text/) is available here, fully formatted and searchable.

2.  Workbook for Students

    The *Workbook for Students* is not available yet.

3.  Manual for Teachers

    The *Manual for Teachers* is not available yet.



