---
title: "Library"
color: "white"
bg: "#62497a"
permalink: /:categories/:title/
categories: landing
fa-icon: "book"
---

## The Library

The library contains teachings that have a similar theme but
differ in the way the ideas are expressed. Taken together, these
differences offer a broad and well-rounded view of the material
expressed. It's very much like having the ability to walk around and
look at all aspects of a beautiful work of art instead of viewing it
from only one perspective.

Christ Mind teachings tend to 'sink in' over time and what was thought
to be fully understood is, six months later, seen in an entirely
different light. This is because, as it says in *A Course in Miracles*,
that:

> Words are symbols of symbols twice removed from Reality.
{: .landing-bq-color-yellow}

Words are important and are the way in which concepts are communicated
but the goal of Christ Mind teachings is not an understanding of the
words but an experience of the Reality they point to. In this way the
meaning of the words is *known* beyond concept and their truth apparent.

<!--
Reference the study guide
-->

Currently, there are two sources of Christ Mind teachings in the library - which is
still under construction.

### *The Way of Mastery*

The core teachings of the [*Way of Mastery*](/wom/intro/wom/) are
comprised of thirty five sequential monthly sessions given by Jeshua,
also known as Jesus, to Jayem (Jon Marc Hammer) over a three year
period. Each year has a specific theme described by the title:

- [*The Way of the Heart*](/wom/intro/woh/) - year one
- [*The Way of Transformation*](/wom/intro/wot/) - year two
- [*The Way of Knowing*](/wom/intro/wok/) - year three

The monthly lessons of *The Way of Mastery* present an ever deepening
pathway of awakening.

Jayem has written about his initial meeting and interaction with Jeshua
in the book *The Jeshua Letters* which is also available here.

Channeled sessions given by Jeshua prior to the core teachings, called
[*The Early Years*](/wom/intro/early/), are also available here but
remain incomplete. The omitted sessions will be added to the library
over time.

[Q&A sessions](/wom/intro/questions/) occurring after a lesson are
included here and are also grouped together for easy reference.

Additionally, the original recording of each session is available along
side of transcript. Look for the <i class="fa fa-volume-up"></i> symbol.

### Northwest Foundation for *ACIM* ([NWFFACIM](/nwffacim/intro/nwffacim/))

Since 1982, Raj and Paul Tuttle have been collaborating and sharing a
very down to earth and practical perspective on *A Course in Miracles*.
Paul has written two books that chronicle his relationship with Raj,
they are:

- [You *Are* the Answer: A Journey of Awakening](/nwffacim/intro/yaa)
  describes Paul's interaction with Raj when they first met.
- [Graduation: The End of Illusions](/nwffacim/intro/grad) updates
  Paul's journey with Raj nine years after they first met.

Raj and Paul have been hosting a weekly *ACIM* study group since 2002
from which the audio and transcripts are available in the library.
Imagine the clarity offered when attending a study group given by the
author himself!

Study group material is sectioned by year and available here:

**Please Note**: While all study group sessions are available, most need
editing to improve readability.

- [Study Group Introduction](/nwffacim/intro/acim/)
- Group Sessions from [2002](/nwffacim/intro/2002/)
- Group Sessions from [2003](/nwffacim/intro/2003/)
- Group Sessions from [2004](/nwffacim/intro/2004/)
- Group Sessions from [2005](/nwffacim/intro/2005/)
- Group Sessions from [2006](/nwffacim/intro/2006/)
- Group Sessions from [2007](/nwffacim/intro/2007/)
- Group Sessions from [2008](/nwffacim/intro/2008/)
- Group Sessions from [2009](/nwffacim/intro/2009/)
- Group Sessions from [2010](/nwffacim/intro/2010/)
- Group Sessions from [2011](/nwffacim/intro/2011/)
- Group Sessions from [2012](/nwffacim/intro/2012/)
- Group Sessions from [2013](/nwffacim/intro/2013/)
- Group Sessions from [2014](/nwffacim/intro/2014/)
- Group Sessions from [2015](/nwffacim/intro/2015/)


