---
title: "Current"
bg: "#f0808"
color: "black"
fa-icon: bullseye
permalink: /:categories/:title/
categories: landing
---
{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

## Help Wanted

The focus now is to complete preparation of the two sources
currently in the library and &ndash; I can use your help. Here's what
needs to be done.

For the *Way of Mastery*:

1.  Editing and formatting of the *Early Years* transcripts.
2.  Capturing audio information.

For the *Northwest Foundation for ACIM*:

1.  Editing and formatting of the ACIM Study Group transcripts.
2.  Determine which audio files need editing.
3.  Capturing audio information.

Here is an overview of what these tasks entail.

### Editing Transcripts
{: .landing-h3}

All transcripts are in a plain text format and are best edited with a
text editor, not a word processor like Microsoft Word or Apple's Pages.
This is a more techie task then are the others so if you have experience
with text editors typically used by programmers you would be of great
support.

The file is edited to a markdown format, not complicated and you don't
need to know what markdown is in order to help. It will be most useful
if you're proficient using a favorite text editor.

### Determine Audio Files in Need of Editing
{: .landing-h3}

This is needed for NWFFACIM[^1] Study Group recordings &ndash; listening to
the first few minutes to a recording will be enough to know if it needs
editing.

You don't need to edit the audio but, if you have the ability to do it,
that's a bonus.

### Capture Audio Information
{: .landing-h3}

This is needed for both WOM[^2] and NWFFACIM.

The Library has a feature where a transcript will be scrolled in sync
with the audio recording as it is playing. The paragraph spoken is
highlighted and scrolled into view.

This feature requires the capture of a time point that occurs between
paragraphs and is needed for all paragraphs in the transcript.

This is an easy task and support for capturing times is built into the
site. All you need to do is listen to the audio and click a large icon,
<i class="fa fa-bullseye"></i>, when the audio passes from one
paragraph to another. You can even do it in the <i class="fa
fa-coffee"></i> shop on your <i class="fa fa-mobile"></i> mobile device.

Please let me know via the [<i class="fa fa-envelope-o"></i> contact
form](/about/#send-me-a-message) if you can help. Your help is *very much* appreciated.

### One Last Thing
{: .landing-h3}

If you have experience in website development or design and would like
to participate in this project you are most welcome and you are
encouraged to [<i class="fa fa-envelope-o"></i> get in
touch](/about/#send-me-a-message).

[^1]: The Northwest Foundation for ACIM (NWFFACIM)
[^2]: The Way of Mastery (WOM)

