---
title: Apr 3, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who is also joining us on the
internet.

Last week I mentioned that each of you is the salvation of the world and
that I might ask you how you did in that respect this week. I’m not
going to do that. [a little audience laughter] You’re off the hook.

But you might ask, “How can I be the salvation of the world? What am I
supposed to do?” And the simple answer is you might pray for the world.
You might pray for key figures, let us say, in situations occurring in
the world. You might pray for a particular part of your body that
doesn’t seem to be reflecting God or God’s Purpose.  And then we might
ask, “Well, how do you pray? What is the right way to pray?” And
actually we’ve been talking about it for some weeks now.

True prayer is when you abandon what you think you want, what you think
you need, when you abandon the thoughts you have about your wants and
needs and go within and turn toward the Altar. To what? Inquire of God
What The Truth Is. And then listen without interjecting anything in the
process. Listen.

If it’s the Father’s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom, which means
withhold nothing from you, then you can count on it that any genuine
inquiry you extend to God will be answered. The fact is that the answer
is always being given. But by virtue of bringing your attention to the
point of listening for the answer opens your mind to the receipt of the
answer.

Now, when you get the answer, when clarification occurs, you can say,
“Oh wow! This is a wonderful bit of information.” Having received the
answer doesn’t automatically mean that you embrace the answer and let it
change you. So ultimately true prayer, and I said this a number of years
ago, is saying “Yes” to God. It’s not asking for something. It’s not
asking God to change a situation or do something for you. It’s to listen
unconditionally, undefendedly within in the quietness of your Being. In
other words, turning toward the Altar and desiring to know the Truth.
Listening, standing in receipt of it, and then saying “Yes.” In other
words, agreeing. Because when you make agreement, you make a commitment.
You make commitment.

So, prayer is saying “Yes” to God. What I want to have be unmistakable
to every single one of you is that when you say “Yes” to God having
inquired, having listened, and having heard, you abandon independence
and you join with God, and as I’ve said before, One with God is a
majority. When there is only one Will finding expression in your
partnership with God and it’s God’s Will, there is power. You become an
agent for change. It’s not a personal, private power. But it’s the Power
of God being unequivocally Himself in all of His Integrity that finds no
resistance to its embodiment in you, and so it becomes embodied. It’s
spontaneous. It’s automatic. It’s actual.

And so the Brother you wanted to know the Truth about, the kidney, or
the heart, or the circulatory system that you wanted to know the Truth
about, you know the Truth about and healing results.

Do not . . . do not under any circumstances think that realization of
the Truth is something that will only happen in your mind. When it
happens in your mind and your mind is not imbued with a sense of
personal, private independent authority, the Authority of God is what is
embodied. And therefore, God is not blocked from expression. I would
encourage all of you at least once a day to sit down to love your world,
to want to know the Truth about it so that you might say “Yes” to God
and have the embodiment of His Will objectively manifested in the world.
Because when you bring your undivided willingness to Him, that is what
happens. His Will becomes embodied, and healing occurs. What is healing?
Healing is the revealing of God’s Intent in His Creation, where it had
been escaping your attention because you had given your own definitions
to it.

So, when the ego suggests to you, “What can you do? You’re just one
among billions?”, now you know that you have the capacity to be an agent
for change by saying “Yes” to God.

What happens when you turn toward the Altar? You have the Experience of
Knowing the Truth, and you have the Experience of the Truth making you
free. Ye shall know the Truth and the Truth shall make you free. Not
that you will know a truth and rehearse it in your mind, but you will
become still enough to inquire of God as to What Truth Is, and in the
inspiration, in the infilling of Truth that occurs, you will find
yourself knowing it and then you will say “Yes.” And it will be embodied
because that’s the way it works.

Okay.

Good evening, Raj. Are there other dynamics that might . . . we might be
called to share with the greater body? I speak specifically of
life-force, chi coming accumulative to possibly serve the difficulties
in the Middle East. A draining of energy, a loss of focus on an
individual basis. As we turn to the Altar, can we be called
unconsciously to be sharing our life-force, if you will, for healing? Is
there a sensation of loss of maybe grounding, not peace, but grounding?
Is there another dynamic that might be going on that we might be
experiencing but not identifying correctly? 1

Absolutely not. Your question suggests that you are a body.

Part of a body, the body of Christ.

But when you speak of your energy, you are speaking of a private energy,
an energy that’s peculiar to you. There’s only one Energy and it is
Infinite. It is the Energy of Spirit, and the Energy of Spirit is Love.
And Love is God. Love is Infinite. And that Energy can’t be spent. You
cannot be depleted. And when you’re joined with the Father, you no
longer have a sense of private, separate beingness that can be energized
or depleted. You don’t need to call the energy chi, or anything else.
It’s Love—plain, pure and simple. Love is the Substance of Everything.
Everything you are experiencing is pure Energy, whether you call it
glass, or carpet, or skin, it’s Energy. It is Spirit, not matter. And
the Substance of It is Love embodying perfectly what the Father is being
right there in the Movement of Being Creation.

So, no. You will not find yourself becoming ungrounded at all, or
depleted in any way, unless you decide that having turned toward the
Altar and having gotten filled up with quote “the Truth,” you turn your
back to the Altar and try to take it out to everyone you see who needs
the Truth, without realizing that the reason they “need the Truth” is
because you are looking at them on your own, still with your own
definitions, and seeing them through the lens of fear, because you
cannot have your back to the Altar without experiencing fear and without
misinterpreting everything you see.

Many individuals play with the idea that turning to the Altar is like
dipping a candle into wax in the process of making a candle. And you dip
it in, and then you pull it out of the wax and let the new coating
harden and the candle is more than it was before. And so they dip
themselves in Love and Truth, and then they come out from it and they
bring to those poor souls that they see, which they see because they’re
not looking with God. Then they will find themselves depleted and will
need to go back for another dip. You see?

No. When you put leaven in bread and it performs its function, it
doesn’t wear itself out. And a little bit of leaven leavens the whole
Brotherhood. A little bit of Love experienced unequivocally and without
bias and admitted to, embraced, blesses the whole Brotherhood. And it
doesn’t deplete you at all because it’s not a personal possession of a
particular form occupying a certain amount of space. You see?

Thank you.

You are welcome.

Could I just add a . . . Many I’ve spoken with are experiencing a
floating, overwhelming reaction to what’s going on. Not knowing maybe
the Truth, that’s the problem. Is this sensation the turning away from
the Altar? Is this kind of . . .

It happens when you try to gather the facts of being from the way things
appear when you have your back to the Altar. Yes.

So a sensation of turning your back to the Altar, the . . .

That is correct.

Thank you.

Yes, you must watch for the tendency to become infatuated with the
awfulness of things. Your movies, your television programs have
conditioned you to “enjoy” the stimulation of violence—car crashes,
explosions, wild hair-raising chases, cars flipping over and over,
things that cannot even happen in real life. And there is an infatuation
with stimulation.

Right now you could say that there is a lot of quote “reality TV”
unquote being broadcast on your televisions. And it is quite stimulating
because it’s “real.”  It’s not pre-recorded. It’s not staged. It’s quote
“real life” unquote. And it’s a rather violent, and in that sense,
visually stimulating experience. If you are going to try to gather the
facts of being from what is presented, you are going to experience
ungroundedness. You are going to find yourself blown emotionally one way
and then another because you don’t have an anchor. And the only way
you’re going to find an anchor is if you pull back from your infatuation
and your tendency to find out what’s going on, in other words, gather
the facts of being from what you’re seeing, so that in the quietness
within you, you might inquire, “What is really going on here?”, so that
you’re not stimulated by the definitions you’ve given to everything or
that you’ve been taught to see.

What you will see on the TV is a call for Love, a call for the Conscious
Experience of Truth in you. When you recognize that’s what it is, then
turn away from the TV and go within so that you might know the Truth,
agree with It, make commitment to It and be out from that clarity within
you.

Okay. We will begin in the Text.

The innocence of God is the true state of the mind of His Son. In this
state your mind knows God, for God is not symbolic; . . .2  

If God was symbolic you could only think about God, or have an opinion
about God. But in this state of mind, in this state your mind knows God.
It’s a direct experience. And not only that. The experience reveals to
you that it is your natural state of being. So you have learned from
knowing God that You are the Presence of God when you get your personal
little sense of yourself out of the way and let Him be all there is
right where you are.

Continue . . .

Should I read that sentence again?

Yes.

In this state your mind knows God, for God is not symbolic; He is Fact.
Knowing His Son as he is, . .

Meaning that now that you’ve experienced yourself as you are and have
had this insightful, inspirational revelation.

Go on . . .

Knowing His Son as he is, you realize that the Atonement, not sacrifice,
is the only appropriate gift for God’s altar, where nothing except
perfection belongs.  

Or can be. Continue . . .

The understanding of the innocent is truth. That is why their altars are
truly radiant.  

Their Altars are truly radiant because they’re not introducing anything
that covers up and dims the radiance.

Continue . . .

MIRACLES AS TRUE PERCEPTION  

I have stated that the basic concepts referred to in this course are not
matters of degree. Certain fundamental concepts cannot be understood in
terms of opposites. It is impossible to conceive of light and darkness
or everything and nothing as joint possibilities. They are all true or
all false. It is essential that you realize your thinking will be
erratic until a firm commitment to one or the other is made.  

And this is why I said that prayer is saying “Yes” to God. Until you say
“Yes” to God, your thinking will be erratic, ungrounded, rudderless.

A firm commitment to darkness or nothingness, however, is impossible. No
one has ever lived who has not experienced some light and some thing. No
one, therefore, is able to deny truth totally, even if he thinks he can.  

Now, if you’re the direct Expression of God, the Son or Daughter of God,
and you have chosen to have a daydream, you have chosen to use your
imagination to conceive of something that God has not created. You can
create for yourself a fantasy, a daydream, and in this daydream you can
imagine that you are not connected with God. You can imagine that you
are an independent free agent. But you know what? You couldn’t have this
fantasy without being the direct Expression of God. Something real about
you has to be engaged in the fantasy, in creating the fantasy. So no
matter how definite you become about seeing yourself as independent from
God, you have to use your God-given ability to be conscious to do it.
You see? So there’s no way for you to become totally ignorant of God.
There’s no way for you to not be experiencing some of What Truth Is. You
see?

Mm hmm.

Continue . . .

Innocence is not a partial attribute. It is not real until it is total.
The partly innocent are apt to be quite foolish at times. It is not
until their innocence becomes a viewpoint with universal application
that it becomes wisdom.  

This is not to say that spurts of the experience of innocent are not
valuable. It just means that you are apt to be quite foolish at times
and at other times you are apt to be quite wise. And the moments of
wisdom that you experience reveal to you more of What Is True of you so
that it becomes easier for you to think of yourself in that more
enlightened way and thus give more frequent permission.

Continue . . .

Innocent or true perception means that you never misperceive and always
see truly. More simply, it means that you never see what does not exist,
and always see what does.  

Yes. I’m going to share with you a statement that will help to make
things clearer here. The statement is that, “I, Jesus, beheld the
perfect man where sinning mortal man appeared to mortals.” In other
words, where those whose backs were to the Altar were seeing sinning
mortal men, the Sons and Daughters of God, but seeing them as sinning
mortal men, he saw the perfect man because he (I) did not have my back
to the Altar and this correct view of man healed the sick, was
transformational.

I bring this out to tie it in with my opening statements as to how you
can be the salvation of the world. When you see the Truth where
erroneous delusional experiences seem to be going on, the result is
healing. And it’s your job to make the choice for that. It’s your work
to make the choice for that. It’s your nature to do that naturally. And
all I’m trying to do is help inspire you to come back into that which is
natural to you, even though it seems to you like an effort.

How will you arrive at a point where you never see what does not exist
and always see what does?  Only by having come to a point where you
choose only to see what does truly exist, turning to God for the vision,
standing in receipt of it and saying “Yes” to it, making commitment to
Truth.

It’s interesting, you can’t come back into your Right Mind until you’re
willing to see your world truly. You see that? You can’t wake up without
blessing the world. You can’t see truly until you care enough about your
fellowman to want to know the Truth about him so that you’re no longer
confused. Isn’t that a wonderful way for salvation and Atonement to be
set up? It’s impossible for it to be an act of selfishness. Waking up
requires that you join with your Brother on your Brother’s behalf,
witnessing for your Brother or Sister. And it’s so simple. You could
call it an exquisite, divine mechanism.

Continue . . .

When you lack confidence in what someone will do, you are attesting to
your belief that he is not in his right mind.  

Again, when you lack confidence in what someone will do, you are
attesting to your belief that he is not in his Right Mind. You are
making commitment to your belief, which means you are not even in
relationship with him. You’re having your own private experience in
which you are pretending that you’re having a relationship.

Is that because you assume something before it happens?

Absolutely.

Okay. You’re judging it before it even happens because you don’t know.

That is correct. But you’re also choosing to come to a conclusion
without ever connecting with your Brother. And in not connecting with
your Brother, you’re withholding yourself from a relationship. And it’s
only in relationship that caring can occur.

Continue . . .

This is hardly a miracle-based frame of reference.  

Indeed. And that sentence should cause some laughter to come from you.
[slight scattered audience laughter] This is hardly a miracle-based
frame of reference.

Continue . . .

It also has the disastrous effect of denying the power of the miracle. 
 
Yes. Because there’s no joining. There’s not enough caring to connect
and having a real experience of relationship before coming to a
conclusion. And because you are having confidence in what the other one
will do based on your own judgments, you’re not available to relate to
him or her based on what the Father has revealed to you about him or
her. And you do not have available to you the Love that the Father has
for him or her to be inspired by yourself to the point of overflowing so
that it’s extended to your Brother or your Sister. And without that,
there’s no miracle.

Continue . . .

The miracle perceives everything as it is. If nothing but the truth
exists, right-minded seeing cannot see anything but perfection.  

Right. If nothing but the Truth exists. Well, nothing but the Truth does
exist. I keep saying that you are confronted always and only by the
Kingdom of Heaven because there’s nothing else going on and therefore
there is nothing else in your face. If you want to see the Kingdom of
Heaven that’s going on, you’re going to have to abandon your commitment
to the definition you’ve given to it, and inquire and be infilled, and
then say “Yes” to the infilling. You have to actually do something to
get past the definitions you’ve been employing.

Continue . . .

I have said that only what God creates or what you create with the same
Will has any real existence. This, then, is all the innocent can see.
They do not suffer from distorted perception.  

Yes. And wouldn’t it be wonderful if you were able to think about
yourselves as innocents (c-e-n-t-s), in innocence, ones who are
innocent. Well, not looking at you through your eyes, I see that you are
all innocent. Because no matter what you think, you really haven’t
succeeded at being more or less than What God Is Being right where each
one of you is right at this moment.

Love is the willingness to recognize that which is Real in each and
every thing, that which is Divinely Real. Are you willing to see That
Which Is Real in everyone you know? It requires a willingness to Love.
Are you really willing to Love everyone you know?

I believe that I am. However, I just believe that I am, and here comes a
“yes but.” And this is my experience of my birthright and my experience
of the birthright that everyone in this room and everyone who’s
listening, everyone in the world, but my own habits of thinking, my own
reactions, my own fears, my own sense of judgment of the situation or
any situation is a cloud. So . . . that’s not good.

And so all of you, all of you do have individuals in your life that you
have reluctance to be willing to Love. Well, you need healing from that.
So for yourself, for yourself be willing to ask the Father to show you
the Truth about that one so that you aren’t blocked from being able to
extend and embody God’s Love more clearly in the world.

“Oh, but I’ve been hurt too much by that one. And blah, blah, blah.”
[audience amusement] But you know what? When you’re blocking your
capacity to embrace with Love, you are causing a hurt in yourself all by
yourself and you need to be free of that.

You know what? Right where every single individual is, is a Divine One
so beautiful and so perfect and so much the Embodiment of Love that you
deserve to be experiencing it even if that one doesn’t know it about
himself or herself yet.

You know what? If you’re going to be the salvation of the world, you’ve
got to be willing to anchor God in the world by choosing to get past
your unwillingness to see the Truth there. “Well, if I do that and I
become defenseless, I’ll just get hurt again.” No. Being filled with
Love and the Vision of the perfection of your Brother or Sister does not
cause you to become ungrounded, foolish, or stupid. And so, if your
Brother or Sister continues to behave as though they are not the
perfection you see, you will recognize it. And without judging them for
it, you will not cooperate with their point of view. And so you will not
get hurt again, and you will not find yourself used. And because you
know the Truth, you will stick with it with commitment. And that
commitment on behalf of your Brother or Sister will constitute a
witnessing for them that will cause yielding to the Truth to occur in
them. And if it takes a while, it won’t bother you because it’s your
pleasure to give them the true perception of them over and over and over
again until they finally get it.

Okay. Let’s continue . . .

I have a statement. What I’ve noticed in my own life that has gotten in
the way before of wanting to fully know and to fully love another person
is all the little fears: fears of losing something, fears of the form of
the relationship changing, fears of appearing foolish or thinking that
you would appear foolish or that somehow you would be attacked, or all
those . . . all those little fears that come from the sense of the
little “I.” The little, you know, person that’s, you know, split off.

The self it feels like you are when you have your back turned toward the
Altar.

Yes. Correct. And I notice in my own life as I stop being afraid of
losing something, as that becomes less important to me than being
aligned with God . . .

Yes.

. . . as I stop being afraid, then it becomes irrelevant to me if the
person chooses to walk away, or chooses to react however they react to
my standing with the Truth. It’s almost like I develop an endless
patience that comes with the Love and not being afraid what the form may
or may not look like as a result of what I put forth.

Yes.

It’s not being afraid any more. Not being afraid of things changing. Not
being afraid of losing somebody.

And being free of the fear, your capacity to on the spot respond with
the clarity of God’s Mind, will allow you to be utterly appropriate. And
so, if someone is leaving and it’s not appropriate for them to leave,
you will be able to express the clarity of what the Father’s Will is in
that circumstance. In other words, to not be afraid of form changing, to
not be afraid of someone abandoning you or leaving doesn’t mean that you
will say “yes” to everything that happens. But in the absence of the
fear, God’s Grounded Clarity and your having a Divine Rudder will allow
you to say “Good-bye” or “Wait a minute!”

Mm hmm. But it all comes from being aligned so you know how to respond.

Exactly. Exactly.

You are afraid of God’s Will because you have used your own mind, which
He created in the likeness of His Own, to miscreate.  

There you go. You see? The Son or Daughter of God has to be present and
Real in order for you to miscreate a fantasy that you can commit
yourself to and thereby enter into a state of apparent insanity. But all
the time that which is energizing it is something utterly Real—the Son
or Daughter of God That You Are.

Continue . . .

The mind can miscreate only when it believes it is not free. An
“imprisoned” mind is not free because it is possessed, or held back, by
itself.  

Indeed. By itself.  Continue . . .

It is therefore limited, and the will is not free to assert itself. To
be one is to be of one mind or will. When the Will of the Sonship and
the Father are one, their perfect accord is Heaven.  

Ah. There’s your definition of Heaven. When the Will of the Sonship and
the Father are One, their perfect accord is Heaven. And that perfect
accord is what you experience as being embodied and so it is what you
experience as a healed world, as a healed body, as harmony and peace on
earth. That’s not the ultimate, but that’s an unavoidable step in the
process of waking up. And it’s why I keep homing in on the fact that
[laughing] it is part of the insanity to think that you can become
spiritually clear without having the manifestation of healing.

So if you don’t have the manifestation of healing, then you weren’t
clear.

That is absolutely correct. Absolutely correct. Write that down and put
it on your refrigerator, because until you accept that, your
spirituality is ungrounded.

Okay. So in an example of a personal relationship with someone, if you
see a call for Love and you ask to see the other truly, and then you
respond, while you’re turning towards the Altar you respond, there would
have to be a healing manifested.

That is correct.

So if you continue to see a call for Love, then you didn’t get it.

That is correct.

Okay. [laughing] Okay, I got that. [laughing]

Yes.

Okay, so this is what I notice. First there’s an upsettedness. So
someone says something or does something or whatever, and you feel your
button pushed. Okay then time goes, you know, so then you may, you know,
what happens sometimes if it really gets pushed, you may just be in that
hurt for a while. “Oh! I’ve been, you know. This is such an injustice,
et cetera, et cetera.” Then that passes and you say, “Oh, I see what
happened. It’s just . . . it’s just an ego trick.” And so you turn to
the Father and you say, “Father, help me to see this the way You see
it.” And then you be quiet and nothing. There’s no infilling. There’s no
answer to it. There’s no response. There’s no transformation there. So
from there, there’s two ways to go. You can just keep sitting there
until it becomes impractical, I guess, to sit there any longer. Or you
can wait until . . . until another time when you can go back and say,
“Father, I still don’t feel healed from that last situation. Help me to
see, to see how You see it.” And so this is the process, correct?

Indeed.

You just keep . . . the perseverance just has to keep being there and
you just keep going back again and again and again for thousands and
thousands of years. [laughing] [audience laughter]

For however long it takes!

[simultaneously] . . . long it takes!

It’s like straightening teeth. You put the braces on and they keep
pressuring for the movement into alignment. And the pressure is
persistent. And as movement occurs, new pressure is applied for further
movement. And so you must persist. You must persist in fulfilling your
Reason for Being. And the only reason you seem to need to persist is
because you’re out of the habit of being the Presence of Love, and
you’re heavily into the habit of being the presence of judgment.

And so, you know, we’ve spoken about the bottom of the barrel, being at
the bottom of the barrel. Well, this is a little different from being at
the bottom of the barrel because what it is, is you recognize that other
ways don’t work. I mean you’ve been down that road so many times before,
that it doesn’t work to get involved in this ego-dynamic bullshit that
just keeps spinning you out. So you have to be persistent. And you keep
going back. And guess what, Raj? That’s not fun. [single audience laugh]

You and I have talked about that before.

That’s a cooker. You’re in the pressure cooker, and you just . . . I
mean you’re sizzling. You’re just . . . you’re there because you’re
neither . . . you’re neither answered, or . . . or and you’re not in
your ego and you’re not, you know what I mean? Maybe you are in your
ego, but you recognize that you’re . . . that’s no way . . . that’s
nowhere to live your life.

That’s correct.

And yet you’re not . . . you’re like in nowhere land, in like . . .

But the reason you’re there is simple. It’s because you’re all stubborn.
[some audience laughter]

So there’s a surrender that needs to happen there, a letting go of the
way you were. But the thing is . . .

Surrender is absolutely essential. And what makes it seem to take time
is your unwillingness to abandon your stubbornness. And many of you may
think that you have very little of a stubborn streak in you and it’s
when you find out how long it takes to hear the Father’s Voice that you
discover the degree of stubbornness. But, you know what? The opportunity
will keep presenting itself to you . . .

Oh, I know that.

. . . and wearing you down.

Right. The other thing, too, is, you know, you’re always saying in your
head, “Well, I’m willing. I certainly am willing!” But that’s a head
trip. [scattered audience laughter] You’re not willing. It’s gotta be in
. . . deep . . . deep down inside. It’s gotta be a shift that you can .
. . that’s palpable, that you can feel in your gut shifting. So uh . . .

Michael, what can I say? [audience laughter]

I don’t know. What can I say? [more audience laughter]

You’ve got the point.

This book I’m holding in my hand, A Course in Miracles, is umpteen
hundred pages of what you just talked about. [some audience laughter]
And until each of you is willing to persist in yielding, that absolutely
horrible word “yielding,” until you actually do that, which isn’t fun,
you’re still stuck no matter how well you can talk the Course. But I
have to remind you that it’s your nature to do this awful thing. It’s
your nature to yield. It’s utterly natural to you and you aren’t going
against your nature by doing it. You’re going against your ego
conditioning, but you’re not going against your nature. And so you have
the support of the Universe behind you in doing it. And so you’re
assured of success.

If feeling helpless is the first step, then I’ve taken that one. That’s
for sure. I don’t know what else to say. I mean I guess . . . I guess
I’m on the right track. It’s just that a . . . when you come to this
point, it’s just a . . . limbo. What can I say?

Yes.

Oh, there no more limbo I realize, that was abolished recently but
nevertheless that’s what I feel. Like maybe I was . . .

Feeling helpless, feeling incompetent is just the first step. The reason
for that experience is to cause you to say “Help!”, to reach out, truly
reach out to God. The first step is the realization, “I of myself can do
nothing.” But you can get stuck there.

And then, you know, anger and frustration can come in, too. Just like a
little kid.

Absolutely.

You know.

And sidetrack you for a little longer. But you get to that point which
is essential and then you must take the next step and say, “Help!” You
much reach out.

Okay. Thanks.

There’s another word that goes along with this. It’s another one of
those awful words, “repentance.” All repentance means is that you’re
willing to change. But you will not arrive at a point of being willing
to change until you realize that your stubbornness has done nothing but
create permanent grief for you, and you want to choose again. You
realize you can do nothing of yourself. You get over being mad about it
and you ask for help. And then you say “Yes” to the help you receive.
And that’s repentance. It’s just you coming back into your Right Mind.
These aren’t really terrible words, and the meanings aren’t terrible.
It’s just you becoming sane again.

So, I’m having a similar experience. What’s happening for me is I’ve
made my commitment, and I know there’s no way out. And I do have enough
evidence that there is a God and that He’s working in my life. And so
when I want to value how quickly the change is happening, instead of
doing that, I relax and I trust. And I’m finding that even though I
might not be changing any faster than Michael, I’m not nearly as
uncomfortable because I got faith that the change is happening in good
time and I just sort of rest there. I mean, I’m not thinking that I’m
getting results any faster, but I’m not uncomfortable.

Okay.

You know, I’m listening to this and I’m resonating with myself and I
know there’s got to be a shift here somewhere where it becomes a matter
of Love. I mean where I’m hearing it’s like it’s a chore—we’ve got to do
this. But it really isn’t. This is a Love affair which takes precedent
over everything in our lives.

But you see, the Love affair, the subject of Love, can’t really be
talked about . . .

I know. [softly]

. . . until the experience of helplessness has been arrived at, and the
element of stubbornness has been gotten past. One has to arrive at a
point where struggling and pain and misery that have been brought about
by stubbornness are no longer experienced as being valuable. And there’s
something in you that wants to make a different choice.

Does that . . . 

That willingness or desire to make a different choice, you could say, is
the first glimmering of self Love, with a capital “L”.

Okay. Would the chore then still be the holdout that you still think you
can do it your way?

Absolutely.

Okay. So there’s still a little . . .

That’s the stubbornness.

That’s the stubbornness. Okay. I wanted to be clear on that.

Yes. I want all of you to be very practical and very real. And I’m not
hanging crepe here, but don’t try to gloss over the work. Don’t try to
find different words to use that make it sound easier. Because
abandoning old habits must be done consciously and conscientiously by
choice. And so I don’t want you to get too flowery about it. I don’t
want you to be depressed about it either just because it’s work. But if
you know that there’s work involved, you will arrive at a point where
you love yourself enough to engage in the effort. The effort to what?
The effort to make distinctions between Truth and error, Good and evil,
and make the choice for Truth and Good, and actually break old habits.

When you are able to distinguish between Truth and error and make the
choice for Truth, you find that instead of being blown about like a
will-of-the-wisp, you now have a rudder. And the amount of effort you
have to put forth to stay on track when you have a rudder is far less
than the amount of effort you have to put forth when you’re being blown
about like a will-of-the-wisp and are having to try stay on track
without a rudder. And so, when you’re willing to become practical enough
and grounded enough to make these distinctions with commitment, you find
that there’s a new level of order and harmony that are accompanied by
conscientiousness. Conscientiousness could be called effort or work. But
you have a natural capacity to stand with the Truth, and that’s what
conscientiousness is.

So I encourage you to avoid words like “a Love affair” and “it’s all
about Love.” I’m not putting you down, but I’m trying to save you time.
Because if you’re looking for something wonderful about it, you will
tend to miss the wonder of the discovery of your capacity to be divinely
conscientious, forever standing at the post, forever making the
distinction, because it’s natural to you to be doing nothing else but
recognizing the Truth and protecting it. Protecting it by never again
indulging in infatuation with error. You see what I’m saying? Okay.

I have a question. I’ve noticed that making distinctions and saying
“Yes” to God means that you also have to be willing to change. And I
think that that is the hook that sometimes comes that . . . where we
practice faithlessness. And we think that change means that we’re being
led to something worse than what we have, I think is where the
stubbornness comes in. I’ve noticed in my own life, being more willing
to change, because sometimes saying “Yes” to God means, you know, a
change in circumstance, or a change in behavior, or a change in
response, whatever. It’s like you have to be flexible. And to know . . .

And sometimes it means staying right where you are and being in a new
way.

Yes. That’s right. But I think that’s where the development of trust
comes in because I’ve noticed that the more that I say “Yes” to God, the
more that I’m willing to change and go with the flow, the more that I
realize that I am being led to something better. And so with time, with
the continued effort, I’m recognizing that I’m becoming stronger, that
I’m more grounded. It’s paying off. From experience I’m noticing it’s
paying off. And I could see how sometimes the . . . early on in the
process, there’s a lot more fear to making distinctions which would then
lead to saying “Yes” which would then lead to . . . because of the
change, because . . .

That is correct.

. . . because the ego likes to suggest that change means change for the
worst.

Exactly. Exactly.  Yes.

I’m sorry. I feel like I’ve been experiencing this and I’ve finally got
past the big chunk of letting go and it’s . . . it’s like letting habits
. . . the habits that don’t get you anywhere. You think they’re getting
you somewhere, but they really don’t go anywhere; dead end street. I
finally somehow got the willingness to let some of that go and just say,
“Okay. I’m all Yours. You show me what to do.” I don’t have to make any
more decisions. I don’t have to do anything except hone in, and then . .
.

Except that you have to say “Yes.”

Yes.

And make commitment to it and that is a decision. But that is something
you will do anew daily.

I feel like that’s happening.

You are correct.

And it is a very wonderful feeling, and it encourages you to keep going.
You want more and more. And it feels like everything is expanding and
making more sense when it’s less scary. Right?

And, at the very same time, you are exercising less control than you
ever have before without becoming stupid or truly foolish.

Quite the opposite actually.

Yes. Exactly.

Thank you.

Ye shall know the Truth and the Truth shall make you free, for God knows
what. For what you don’t want to imagine because what you would imagine
will be far less than what the Father’s gifting you with. And when in
any given moment you ask the Father, “What is Truth?” and you experience
Truth, as I said last week, don’t assume that today’s illumination will
be sufficient to illuminate tomorrow. Because you want the direct
Experience of Truth in its ever-freshness moment by moment by moment
eternally.

So do understand that listening to the Father, listening for the
Father’s Will and saying “Yes” to it will mean that you will never be
able to peg anything. You will never have it under your belt so that you
will never have to listen again because you’ve got it. Being means
forever getting it fresh. And just remember this. Forever getting it
fresh is going to be evidenced as healing, as the salvation of the
world, the uncovering of the Kingdom of Heaven where you had been seeing
the world. And so it’s with each other and with all of the Brotherhood
that the Love of God comes into play and expression and embodiment, and
the revelation of What Truth Is in every single relationship. And
remember, you not only have relationships with each other, you have
relationships with the flowers, and the trees and the animals, and
everything.

Is everyone enjoying the Course?

Absolutely.

It is a wonderful trigger of the movement from head to heart, from
having one’s back to the Altar to turning toward the Altar, to wanting
to know the Truth and inquiring as to What Truth Is. Not for uses you
would put it to, but to know What God Is Being so that you might be let
in on the secret, the very public infinite manifestation of Creation
that you’ve been missing out on because you’ve insisted on using your
own private definitions, thus making [laugh] the universal publicness of
God’s Being a secret kept from you!

The process will take effort in the sense that distinctions will need to
be made. Commitments will have to be made. Persistence will have to
occur. Dedication. You see?  But having these is your Birthright. You
could say it’s programmed into you already. It’s on your hard drive. You
just haven’t opened the programs up for a while. It’s all there.

I love you. Remember to love each other enough to want to know the Truth
about each other, and then turn to God for the revelation of it.

Okay. I look forward to seeing you next week.

Chapter 3 – RETRAINING THE MIND – Section: ATONEMENT WITHOUT SACRIFICE
(Raj did not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July 2003,
therefore, there can be a lot of difference in the readings.) Sparkly
Book – p.50, 1st Full Par., Line 7   /   JCIM – p.21, 1st Par., Line 4
/   CIMS – p.43, Par. 24, Line 6 Chapter 3 – THE INNOCENT PERCEPTION –
Section:  ATTONEMENT WITHOUT SACRIFICE 2First Edition  –  p. 34   /
Second Edition – p 38, Par. 8 

[^1]: Students commenting or asking a question.
