---
title: May 18, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good afternoon and welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the internet
as well. And, again, today, if there are questions from the internet,
some of them will be addressed.

Let’s go right into the book. And actually we will probably only read
the first paragraph and use it as a springboard. Would you do the
honors?

Perception always involves some misuse of mind, because it brings the
mind into areas of uncertainty. The mind is very active. When it chooses
to be separated it chooses to perceive. Until then it wills only to
know. Afterwards it can only choose ambiguously, and the only way out of
ambiguity is clear perception. The mind returns to its proper function
only when it wills to know. This places it in the service of spirit,
where perception is changed. The mind chooses to divide itself when it
chooses to make its own levels. But it could not entirely separate
itself from spirit, because it is from spirit that it derives its whole
power to make or create. Even in miscreation the mind is affirming its
Source, or it would merely cease to be. This is impossible, because the
mind belongs to spirit which God created and which is therefore
eternal.1
 
[The teal colored words in the above paragraph were not spoken by the
reader.]

Perhaps the most important sentence in there says: “But it could not
entirely separate itself from spirit, because it is from spirit that it
derives its whole power to make or create.” And let’s be sure we
understand the distinction between make and create.

Last week I suggested that the word “up” should be added to “make.”
“Make-up,” to make-up something, an imagination. To make is what the
mind does when it has separated itself from the Father and experiences,
or seems to experience itself as independent, then it makes things. But
the making doesn’t constitute Creation. Now the point is that not a
single one of you has ever stopped being the direct Expression of God.

Your apparent capacity to believe yourself to be independent, to be
unrelated to God by virtue of being at the end of a chain of evolution
that started with a big bang and all you are is the result of a joining
of a sperm and an egg, that is a made-up view of yourselves. And
everything you do on that basis constitutes a making of things, and as I
said, does not constitute Creation at all.

Now, it is still the Son of God making things as opposed to the Son of
God creating things. You have not become an ego. You have not become
what you think you are. And any power you have to draw a breath as a
human being separate from God is derived from the fact that at this very
moment you are the Son of God, the direct Expression of God, God
embodied. This is very important for you to understand because it’s in
this way that you can understand what I mean when I say you’re having a
dream on a grassy knoll in the Kingdom of Heaven.  At this moment you
are exactly as you were created by the Father. This is why an ego does
not have to refine its soul to get back Home. You’re already at Home.
You’re already the Son of God pretending you’re not and believing the
pretension. If that’s clear to you, your awakening will be much simpler.

Even in miscreation, the mind is affirming its capital “S” Source. You
see that? Right now, you are, no matter how you see yourself, affirming
and being the Expression of God, but you’re doing it unconsciously. And
as a result of doing it unconsciously, you’re goofing up all over the
place. You are mis-creating, and you are misunderstanding Creation.

The mortal dream of existence is what you experience when you make of
the Kingdom of Heaven something other than it is in your mind, and then
believe and devote yourself to your belief. But it’s still the Son of
God confronted with and seeing the Kingdom of Heaven with all the power
and all of the glory of your Divine Being active, but occurring unknown
to you while you are devoted to your perception of it all. Period.

The experience is an uneasy experience. It is an unpleasant experience.
It’s an experience in which there are these things called sin, disease
and death. “But, oh, you accept the challenge of trying to overcome
them” instead of coming back Home where they don’t exist at all because
they were only ever imaginary.

It is the Father’s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom. That statement
only means something if you’re in the mortal dream, the made-up concept
of existence and the made-up sense of yourself as being separate
because, divinely speaking, Creation is the undivided and inseparable
manifestation of All That God Is, which includes you, and so Creation is
the extension of you as well.

But if you have taken a stance of independence and you’re choosing to
see things the way you want to see them, then the infinite embodiment of
What-You-Are/God-Is becomes something you stand in receipt of. The very
Presence of your Being becomes something separate from you that can’t
become separate from you, and therefore, it can only be understood as
God’s Gift to you.

But, you know what?  The way the ego works, the way being is experienced
when you have claimed independence from the Father is that the Gift, all
of Creation, is also seen as independent of the Father. Independent in
this sense: The very scientific physical sense that the Universe has
nothing to do with God at all. It’s purely physical and started from a
big bang. And everything about it is the natural evolution of matter and
the way matter works. Now the Gift has become separated from the Giver.
You see that?

Just as the one seeing the Gift separated from the Giver sees himself as
separate from his Source, thinking that he is the source of himself and
therefore has free will to be in whatever way he wishes without
accountability to any other part of Creation, and it’s called the
capacity to be original and introduce something new into the human
condition. And then, this supposed capacity to be so independent that
one can be so original that something valuably new can be introduced
into the human condition becomes a source of pride.

Now, when you conceive of yourself as self-created, as independent from
God, as I said, it’s an uneasy and uncomfortable experience. No one
enjoys it and everyone does want to escape from it. Everyone wants to
become free from suffering. And the manifestation of that independent
stance is called dis-ease, lack of ease.

But when one accepts the independence as valid and finds himself
experiencing dis-ease, lack of ease, discomfort, stress, and so on, and
takes these on as a challenge to assert his authority or her authority
as an independent authorizer and convinces himself or herself that in so
doing, it gives him or her greater credibility so that it becomes a goal
of great meaning and one makes commitment to quote “making his mark in
the world,” what he has made and therefore takes pleasure in the
suffering experience and the overcoming of it, that’s not dis-ease. That
is sin. When one takes pleasure, finds gratification, finds meaning in
the dream and the overcoming of it by independent means, that is sin.

And I’m going to be very frank with you. The fact that you’re not awake
means that you are all enjoying the challenge of bringing your own
unique independent viewpoint to bear upon life so as to overcome these
problems. You are in sin. And so, in this sense, the traditional church,
the traditional religious teaching that says, “you are all sinners,” is
true. But the way I have expressed it comes from another direction. It
doesn’t mean you’re guilty and it has nothing to do with punishment. It
has to do with engaging in an activity that is erroneous that you
believe is valid and which you are taking pleasure in engaging with.

The healing of dis-ease and the healing of sin are different. Why?
Because you don’t enjoy dis-ease. And many times dis-ease is healed
without your having to have any conscious awareness of what the specific
belief was that was manifest in the form of the disease. But sin can
only be healed when the specific pleasure that you are taking in it is
uncovered so that you may see what you are doing, and consciously
abandon it. And until it is seen and consciously abandoned, sin will not
spontaneously and miraculously disappear. This is very important to
understand.

In a moment. [said to someone who wanted to ask a question]

Again, I am not using the word “sin” with the traditional connotations.
All it is, is the commitment to an erroneous belief that is done with
pleasure and satisfaction that strokes one’s ego, thereby apparently
strengthening it. To know that this is what it is, means that you do not
have to worry about retribution, about ultimate penalties, because
you’re already experiencing ignorance of Home. You’re already
experiencing ignorance of your connection with the Father. There’s no
further penalty, and it’s not a penalty laid upon you. It’s just that if
you’re not paying attention, you’re likely to stub your toe. So that’s
all the extent . . . that is the extent of punishment, you might say,
and it doesn’t come from any outside source, like the Father.

Understanding this will make it easier for you to awaken because you
will not be existing in a state of fear of the Father’s wrath because
you have sinned. You see? And so you do not need to be distracted by
fear in the process of dealing with sin.

Yes, Michael?

You indicated that if you’re in . . . if you’re not awake, then you’re
living in sin. Is it possible that say that you’re at the bottom of the
barrel and you’re as surrendered as you can be at the bottom of the
barrel, is it possible at that point to still not be awake but yet not
be in sin because you’re not enjoying anything at that point. Like you
don’t want any more.

No, you see, it’s not the state of not enjoying anything at that point
that undoes anything. It’s the state of not enjoying anything and giving
up . . .

Right. Right.

. . . and yielding to the Father.

So what I’m getting from this then is that if you’re not awake, there’s
still a part of you that’s not fully surrendered.

That is correct.

So that even though we’ve all been through the situation where we feel
like we’re totally surrendered, there is a part of us that’s not totally
surrendered. I mean I believe that each one of us has hit the bottom of
the barrel at one time or another, but yet, here we are. We just .. I
mean, we were at the bottom of the barrel but now we feel that we’re not
at the bottom of the barrel, even though, in reality, we’re really
nowhere.

[laugh] That’s correct. Yes. You will find that you come to the bottom
of the barrel and you yield and there is transformation and there is
regeneration. And that doesn’t mean that you’ve risen in the barrel. And
there is a level of peace and a level of respite from struggle. And then
. . .

That’s seems to . . .

. . . the bottom of the barrel drops lower and you find that the barrel
was a deeper barrel than you thought.

And you feel better about yourself.

In other words, when I’ve hit the bottom of the barrel and then things
seem to clear up . . .

Yes.

. . . and then I feel better about it . . .

That is correct.

. . . and then I don’t feel as surrendered as I was before, because I
feel like, “Oh, I’ve really made progress.” And that kind of reinforces
me not to surrender further. Do you see what I mean?

That . . .  Yes.

Because I feel better about myself.

Yes. And it’s natural to come to a new level of peace and
self-appreciation in the yielding. But then subtler levels of
willfulness, subtler levels of mutually-agreed-upon beliefs have to be
uncovered. And so the bottom of the barrel drops further and you become,
for lack of better words, more delicately attuned to the subtleties of
the ego that you couldn’t even perceive at what I will call grosser
levels of ego structures.

And when the bottom drops out again, you think, “Oh boy, and here I had
thought I had made so much progress, and evidently I haven’t made any
progress at all.” But that is an illusion. You have made progress. And
now there’s further progress to be made, further yielding which now you
are prepared to engage in, or better prepared to engage in, because
you’ve already yielded up so much control and learned how valuable it
has been not to be in control that there’s less resistance to abandoning
even subtler levels of control that you heretofore were unaware you were
utilizing.

Each time the bottom of the barrel drops down a little bit further, does
that mean that your suffering has to be turned up more or is it less or
is that all dependent on how you handle it? In other words, what you
choose as far as your way to perceive it?

Well, suffering is always equal to the amount of resistance to God you
are introducing into the picture.

So it’s a real time thing? The more you resist, the more painful it
feels. It’s not like there’s a . . .

Of course.

It’s not like two steps forward, one step back, or one step forward, two
steps back. It all depends on what’s going on . . .

Of course.

. . . in the moment. I see. Thank you.

Now obviously if when you have claimed independence from the Father you
have narrowed your focus of attention down because you’ve abandon the
infinite view, every step of awakening, you could say, is going to
involve greater, fuller, more glorious views, I’ll say, of Reality. That
part sounds very desirable to you.  The part you may not be aware that
you will want to avoid is the apparent responsibility to embrace it
consciously because it appears to you that it requires you to be more
conscientiously conscious than you’ve ever been before. And that
terrible word “work” looms its head. “Oh, if this is awakening and it’s
natural to my being, it shouldn’t seem like work!”

Well, what’s natural to you does seem like work if you have managed to
push the wholeness of you out of the picture and the wholeness of your
capacity to be aware out of your experience in favor of a much smaller
dimension of everything, and so it does look like more work. It does
look like not having any free time to just let go and relax because
there’s so much to be conscious of. And there’s a tendency to want to
fall back into . . .  mmmm . . . fuzziness.

Now, awakening is a process of learning. I mean you’re going to be
changed from the way you’re experiencing yourselves. You’re going to
know things that you had forgotten. And in that sense you’re going to
re-learn them. You’re going to reincorporate them into your Conscious
Experience of Being. And in the reincorporating, you will seem to
change.  Learning means change.

Now those of you here at least have been engaged consciously in what you
have called an awakening process and so you have been studying
yourselves, you might say, you have been examining your motives. You
have been examining your beliefs. You’ve been examining your concepts to
see whether they’re serving you. And then you have been willing to
consider the possibility that none of your concepts and beliefs serve
you well at all and therefore you are willing to reach beyond them to
the Father for His Guidance.

And so, all the way along this apparent process of awakening, you have
been faced with the correction of your ignorances by virtue of their
being replaced with what I’m going to call clearer and clearer
experiences of Truth. You, yourselves, privately, individually, I’m
going to say, have looked for those places in you which call for
correction, and if you have made any valid progress, you have been
willing to uncover not only your beliefs that promote dis-ease, but the
false pleasures in illusion that you have been committed to for the
purpose of self-satisfying ego-building. And so you have all engaged in
uncovering sin in yourselves.

If you have made progress, it is because you have allowed what you would
have kept secret to be uncovered to you so that you might see it
clearly, so that you might make the distinction between illusion and
Truth so that in the clarity of the distinction, you can abandon your
commitment to illusion. Right?

Okay. For the most part since we have been going through the Course and
for the most part as most students of the Course have studied it, they
have and you have, taken this as a course of study about voluntary
individual growth as though the answer to all problems is an entirely
private individual affair and that your doing that will be sufficient to
change the world. And, as a result, you’ve ended up still being private,
still being separate from the world. And yet, we’ve discussed the fact
that you are the salvation of the world.

Today is sort of like a . . . when you take chemistry, you have three
days a week of class work and then two days a week of lab work so
today’s a little bit of lab work. Okay.

We’ve talked about involvement, haven’t we?  We’ve talked about being
present with and for your Brother. We’ve talked about turning back to
the Altar so that you might be infilled with the Father’s perspective
which it’s your Birthright to be experiencing because the Father’s Mind
is your Right Mind. And what? The fact that in order for what the Father
reveals to you to have meaning will occur only when your desire to know
the Truth is on your brother’s behalf. You can’t get the goodies from
the Father for yourself privately! It’s simple. It’s un-reversible. It’s
unchangeable.

If you want the blessing of the Father’s point of view, you’ve got to
ask for it for someone else.  You have to have an object of your
affection and you’re not a sufficient object of your affection. Because
if you could be the sufficient object of your affection to experience
the Father’s Will and wake up, you could leave everybody behind and
still be separate from everyone because there had been no caring, no
extension of Love, no involvement, no unity. And I’ll tell you, Unity
with God does not mean an absence of Unity with your Brothers and
Sisters. You can’t have Unity with God and leave your Brothers and
Sisters out. It’s like talking about dry water. There ain’t no such
thing!

Now, when your Brother or Sister is ill, experiencing dis-ease, your
turning toward the Altar, your refusal to accept what your conditionings
cause your eyes to see in a Brother and your decision to turn toward the
Altar to learn of God what the Truth is, not about that person’s problem
or their particular dis-ease, but the Truth about them as the Son or
Daughter of God. As you do that, healing can occur.

But if that individual is suffering from sin, you’re put in a new
position, a different kind of position. When you turn to the Father to
learn the Truth about them, the Truth about them will be the truth that
will help them release their fascination with and devotion to the
pleasure that they’re getting out of indulging in believing an illusion.
And you will have to be a teacher. You will have to uncover the sin. You
will have to not keep your mouth shut and say, “I’ll let them work it
out for themselves.” In effect, you’re saying “Oh, I’ll let them suffer
a little longer, even though if I spoke up and uncovered it, it could
lead to their instantaneous recovery, or at least more rapid recovery,
because what they’re keeping hidden from themselves will be brought out
at least for them to accept or consciously reject again.”

Awakening is a process of education. And so, your having an object of
your affection, a Brother or a Sister, and your caring enough about them
to turn toward the Altar to learn of God what is the Truth about them,
will provide you with what it takes to be bold enough to not join in
keeping the sin hidden, keeping the sin secret, keeping the pleasure,
the false pleasure in something that is binding them still hidden, still
covered up.

I’m constantly uncovering to you your illusions. And so it’s obvious to
you that illusions and devotions to illusions can be uncovered without
insulting you, even though at times I know I bother you.

Now as I said as we’ve been going through the Course, we’ve been talking
about these principles as they relate to you individually and your own
inner work. But you exist in a Brotherhood and you’re not an island. And
your devotion to your Brother, your Love for him and your Love for your
Sister requires that you involve yourself with courage. And when the
Father reveals to you what needs to be uncovered and impulses you to
engage with your Brother on behalf of his release, it will require you
to abandon the inclination to let each one work out his salvation on his
own and speak up and involve yourself. Involve yourself and cast your
vote on behalf of Truth, which is the Truth about them that can and will
undo their bondage to their devotion to the pleasure they think they’re
getting from, I’m going to say, independence and the further
establishing of it.

Now, if you look at yourselves, if you look at yourselves honestly, you
will be aware of all the arguments you have used to avoid looking at the
Truth; all the excuses you have, all the justifications and the
arguments you have employed. And so you must be practical enough to
understand that you are going to meet resistance in the uncovering of
that which another wishes to keep secret and who feels that the
uncovering of the secret will jeopardize them, damage them, injure them,
rather than release them. And you must be willing nevertheless to care
enough to voice the Truth without indicting that one.

Now, another aspect of this that you must understand so that you’re not
surprised. I’ve spoken before about the crab barrel theory where a crab
tries to crawl out of the crab barrel and the other crabs grab it back
and that’s why there don’t need to be any covers on crab barrels. First
of all, the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you abide by have
arisen out of a mindset, an imagination, that you can be independent and
that you are independent and therefore you are a person, private person
with a boundary. And this person is flawed. And you all mutually agree
between yourselves that you are flawed and you all mutually agree that
you will use each other’s flaws which you all know about to keep each
other in line. Right? That’s just the rule of the human condition.

Now, when you have been willing to abandon a personal sense of yourself,
when you have been willing to say, “I desire to see things outside of
the box of my personal sense of things. I intend to yield to the Father.
I am willing to let the Father in.” And you let that infilling occur,
and you begin to have your illusions revealed to you, and you set them
aside and you grow and you exercise less and less control, you move
into, for lack of better words, an arena where the word “personal”
doesn’t apply to you because there’s less and less boundary to it and
it’s more and more infinite, more and more all-inclusive.

And the simple fact is that by the time you arrive at a point where
you’re able to yield to God and feel the infilling of enlightenment and
greater clarity to the point where you can distinguish between Truth and
illusion and make the choice, and none of this activity in you has
anything to do with personal authority or personal control, you are able
then to know when to speak in an educational way to a Brother or Sister
to uncover the secret that great pleasure is being taken in.

And when you do, the response is likely to be to call you back into a
personal sense of yourself. In other words, they’re likely say, “Well,
that’s just your opinion,” belittling the clarity. But it isn’t just
belittling the clarity and the more infinite view. It is a ploy to
re-engage you in a habit newly released by you of responding to
everything from a personal level, a personal sense of yourself. And
because your familiarity with those responses isn’t far enough in the
past for you to not be hooked by at all, it is possible for you to be
hooked and then abandon the more infinite view in order to defend
yourself.

Another response could be: “Well, you’re just afraid. You’re actually
acting paranoid. You’re seeing awful things everywhere.”  In other
words: “You’re crazy. Your mind is not functioning well. You are at
fault for what you are seeing.” And again, you see what it does? It
calls a personal integrity into question. And if any of you have seen
[the movie] “Back to the Future,” you know that the main character could
not resist responding unintelligently to the suggestion that he was a
chicken.

The suggestion that you’re an ego, when you are not coming from an ego
place, is something that you are subject to reacting to because your
habit of acting as an ego is not far enough in your past for you to be
free of the knee-jerk response to a personal ego . . . a personal attack
in the sense of re-igniting in you the dynamics of being an ego and the
need to defend yourself.

Now, I could give you more examples, but it is important for you to
understand that regardless of the variation in the examples, all of the
varied things, because those who know you will use what they perceive to
be your weaknesses, and they won’t be the same for each person.

But the point is that when you have been willing to do the work to
abandon your own egos, to not validate them, to not resist them, but to
turn your attention undividedly to the Altar desiring to know of God
what the Truth is and becoming undefended enough to let the Truth infill
you, you become more stable. Your experience of peace is more grounded.
Your feeling of invulnerability is more secure.

And because you are not bouncing off of your own ego reactions, it can
then be a surprise when you extend Love to another to have them try to
reengage you in your old habits of ego reactions. And you need to be
practical enough to know that it’s inevitable that that’s going to
happen, so that you’re not surprised and not sidetracked from being able
to be an agent for change because you can make the distinction between
what is illusion and what is Truth.

And because you can make the choice for Truth and make commitment to it
and voice it to your Brother or Sister, so that you say, “No, I will not
join you in that. Yes, I will join you in this. Will you join me in the
Truth about you? Will you bear with me long enough to hear what will
release you from the suffering you’re experiencing?”

Oh, but another ploy is, “Well, you’re the one who’s causing me my
suffering.”  And of course what they mean is, “You’re uncovering what I
need to keep secret, because my keeping it secret is what keeps me
safe.” And they will say, “What you’re doing is not love.” And what you
have to be clear about is that keeping silent and letting the secret
remain covered, that is what is not love. But again, this means
involvement; this means what the other person would call butting into
their business. And it means when you are dealing with sin, meaning the
pleasure in keeping a secret, the pleasure in engaging in and embodying
a lie which you will not let anybody else see, but which you revel in
doing.

It means that their accusative response pointing the finger at you and
saying, “you’re not being love and therefore you can’t possibly be
hearing God and this is all your ego,” that when they do that, you’ll
take it.  And you will stand there in the face of their distress without
flinching and without abandoning the Truth that you know that they need
to know so that their suffering can stop. And you teach them. And you
say, “No, here is the Truth.”  You care enough to hang in there and
re-educate, because that’s the only thing that will correct sin. You see
what I’m saying?

 This is not a private work. Your clear correct perception or your clear
 correct experience of Truth can heal disease and death instantaneously
 as I did, but sin requires education. And education requires
 involvement. One-on-one involvement.

You must understand that in order for the private personal ego sense of
itself to survive, it must defend itself against its non-existence being
uncovered. And therefore, it will aggressively protect itself. And it
will protect itself by unscrupulous means. It will not protect itself
intelligently, reasonably, kindly, but always by unscrupulous means.

Now, am I saying this that you might know that you are faced with a
deadly enemy, or at least is nothing less than malicious and therefore
you ought to be afraid? No. Because it’s still nothing. But you must
understand the way it works so that you are unequivocal with it, because
it will attack your integrity, either directly in your mind or out of
the mouths of others, and cause you to doubt yourself because it’s only
when you doubt yourself that it can reign freely. It’s purpose is to
keep you from remembering Who You Are because when you remember Who You
Are, it will cease to seem to be anything.

Now you must understand this, not so that you might see just how starkly
the opposites are opposed to each other, because these are not
opposites.  It’s Something and nothing! Those are not opposites. It’s
God and nothing. But you must understand that because the ego is
imagined and is not real, it cannot gather anything to substantiate its
existence that has substance. And it, therefore, operates with what? It
operates with the discomfort, the bell that rings when the truck is
backing up.

The warning bell, your innate Sanity that tells you that: “When you’re
not connected with the Father, you are in territory that you need to be
alert to so you don’t accept it as real and you get back Home as soon as
possible because you’re attempting to do something impossible.”

It [the ego] takes that uneasiness and says: “It has nothing to do with
your remembering Who You Are. It has to do with the condition of
existence. And you know what? You have the capacity to overcome it by
strengthening yourself and feeling your integrity and your personal
power. And so I will help you enhance your sense of personal power in
your privateness in order to overcome this uneasiness.”

Which can’t go away because it’s your innate Sanity saying: “You’re
playing with impossibilities here. You are playing with what would cause
you to not be fully conscious.” And your innate Sanity provides you with
the warning so that you might stop.

Okay. If you understand that this is the way the ego works, and that it
succeeds only by making you feel personally vulnerable as a tiny
personality. It will even try to convince you that all you are is a
personality and that everything you’re seeing is your creation. And if
you’re seeing something you don’t like, it’s your mis-creation, et
cetera. And it undermines your capacity to see that there’s an absolute
difference between what is Real and what is illusory. So absolute that
what is Real is the Only And All That There Is, and what is unreal is
non-existent.

So when we’re talking about glorifying God in everything you see, we’re
talking about something that’s far from passive. Something that’s far
from private and uninvolved. Something where you call a spade a spade.
Something where you don’t mince words. And where the education, the
loving persistent expression of what Truth is, is presented.  And a
clear-cut expression that, “this isn’t true, this isn’t appropriate,
this does not serve you, this is illusion,” gets voiced because it’s
part of the educational process of making the distinction. And it
provides a requirement for the individual who wants to believe that
anything goes and that there is no black and white, it provides them
with the inability to believe that unchallenged.

The lie has to be challenged. I’m challenging the lie every time I speak
with you. And the Course is challenging the lie in the world whenever
anyone reads it. It says, “There is another way to look at this.” And
it’s not just a point of view. It is not just the perspective of the
author. There is a God. There are absolutes. And there is nothing else.

There is black and white, and white cancels out black so there’s only
white. But there’s not fuzziness. There’s not ambiguousness. And to the
degree that you do not make the distinction between Truth and illusion,
and protect Truth by proclaiming It out loud and loving your Brother
enough to join in an educational process, you will be promoting ongoing
nebulousness and you will not be glorifying God. You can’t keep your
mouth shut. And you must call a lie a lie and you must call the Truth
true. And you must, if you’re going to be an agent for change, and if
you’re going to be the salvation of the world, you must declare yourself
declaring God.

And now I’ve brought you face to face with the dirty word “work!” I’ve
brought you face to face with the fact that as you open up to more, it’s
going to seem like there is more responsibility, more to be conscious
of. “God, do I have to be that alert? Do I have to be that conscious? Do
I have to be so on the ball that [snaps fingers] in the moment something
happens, I can reflect God back? Don’t I get a rest?” What you mean is,
“Don’t I get time to be fuzzy and unconscious?”, as though being
conscious and the presence as an active agent for change is not natural
to you and is not easy for you. Because it is natural for you, it is
easy for you, but you’ve been practicing, let us say, that you can be
conscious at warp speed, but you’ve been practicing traveling at only
5,000 miles an hour where you didn’t have to pay as much attention and
you could see the sights “at your leisure, Ohhhh.” You see?

Warp speed is natural to you. And you will find that it’s natural to you
when you’re willing to come out of the closet, when you’re willing to
get off the couch, out of your easy chair, out of your mentally fuzzy
thinking and actually be conscious with God for yourself and your
Brother so that none of capital “C” Creation escapes your notice. And so
that the wholeness of you doesn’t escape your notice.

You know what? You’ve got to stop giving rights to the human condition.
You’ve got to stop giving rights to the human condition. “Ah, well,
they’re only human. You know, we’re bound to have terrorists. You can’t
get rid of terrorists. Everybody has different points of view and
there’s always going to be terrorists.” Bullshit! Stop being
lackadaisical in your mind. Stop giving rights to the human condition.

The human condition is an illusion! It can’t be given any rights because
it doesn’t exist. But to the degree that you’re lazy and sloppy in your
thinking and give it rights and you say, “Well, there’s nothing you can
do about that. Ah, you know what? The best thing to do is leave it
alone, and it’ll go away.” No, it won’t, because the ego is intent upon
preserving itself and undermining and getting rid of that which will
disclose its non-existence. Leave it alone and it will secure more and
more ground by virtue of mutually-agreed-upon definitions of more and
more people who are valuing their illusions.

And as long as it’s going on over in the Middle East, or as long as it’s
going off some distance away from you, you can for a while say, “Just
ignore it. It’ll go away.”  But you know what? That’s not the way the
ego works. The ego is squeezing God out. Not successfully. But that is
its motive because only in the absence of God can an illusory self seem
to have any presence and existence. You see that?

You know what?  Don’t speak up and the human condition will expand until
it’s on your doorstep, in your face, aggressively undermining whatever
peace you have been able to achieve by virtue of un-involvement because
you were at a distance. And now you will be faced with the call that
I’ve been giving you today, a call for correction that I’ve been giving
you today. Not because there’s a threat out there, but because you want
to wake up. And you’ve said you want to wake up and you’ve said you want
to be an agent for change. That you do want to glorify God. And you
don’t glorify God passively by un-involvement and not magnifying the lie
by pointing it out, uncovering it. It will arrive at your doorstep and
then you will have to do what I’m saying today because it will be
overwhelming. It will be in your face.

Now, I’m not suggesting that you’re on the threshold of Armageddon. I’m
not suggesting that you’re on the threshold of a great war--inner or
outer. I’m not describing anything any worse than is going on at this
very instant. At this very instant you’re not awake. You’re the Sons and
Daughters of God, whose Mind is your Right Mind. And the contents of
that Infinite Mind are by Birthright yours, and you’re not experiencing
it. And you will not regain the experience of them through some private
spiritual process of waking up.

Now I’ve said that the only thing the ego can’t defend itself against is
disregard. So, does that mean that as long as you disregard the ego, you
can go along your merry way and everything will be hunky-dory?  No,
because you’re not awake yet! Because there’s something else to do
besides not defend yourself against the ego by disregarding it. The
something else is to want to wake up, to want to come back into your
Sanity, to want your Right Mind which never abandoned you, but which you
compartmentalized so that the majority of it was out of sight, so that
It might be restored to you.

And what I’ve shared with you today will help you deal with the way the
ego will attempt to distract you from your desire to come back into your
Right Mind so that you won’t be surprised and shocked that it’s
happening. And so that you won’t be afraid of it when it’s happens. As
well as illuminating the fact that when your Brother or Sister is caught
in the pleasure of an indulging in an illusion and wanting to keep that
covered up, if you don’t want the effects of what they’re covering up to
eventually encroach directly on you in your face, you’ll uncover it with
Love and with education. And you won’t be afraid to say, “This is
wrong,” and, “This is right.”

You know, you grew up. You were a child and you looked forward to the
day you were twenty-one when you would be emancipated from your teachers
and you would graduate into being independent. Not realizing that it
wasn’t independence at all but was a shift into a responsibility to be
cooperative with the whole. Yielding to that which blesses the whole and
that at no point was there the freedom to be like a wild cannonball
careening without any order, or path, everywhere and anywhere it wanted
to go with no intelligence to it whatsoever.

The belief was that when you got to be twenty-one, you wouldn’t have to
do any more learning. You would have learned enough to be able to
function without any more information, directions, rules, crammed down
your throat that you would have to abide by. And so it’s very difficult
for many so-called adults to adjust to the fact that society and
circumstances, and so on, place requirements on them. And they have to
change, if they haven’t been willing to cooperate with the way things
work. And, well, the fact is learning goes on. And as long as learning
of Truth goes on, change occurs in you, and you grow and you become
something new.

Your desire not to be told what to do or how things work, your desire to
be free of having to cooperate with the way things work, fuels your
resistance to telling other people the Truth, telling other people that
there’s need for change. That this works and this doesn’t work, and
therefore, you need to start doing what works. Being the Voice for
Truth.

“Well, I grew up. I got away from home. I’m making a living. I’m
supporting myself. I’m paying my way. I’m not leaning on anyone. No one
has a right to tell me anything.” Not true.

And once it dawns on you that it’s your job to witness for your Brother
and Sister, to be there with them and for them on their behalf, and that
they’re there for you, they’re there with you for the same reason, when
that becomes clear to you, you will stop being afraid to open up your
mouth and say, “Stop this now. This works. Do that.” As long as everyone
thinks they have the right not to have to learn anything new and change,
you will continue to have evidences of chaos and confusion in your
relationships, in your country, and internationally.

I said a little earlier that you would have your chance to ask
questions. I’m not going to, because I want what I’ve said to sit there
undiluted by comments and where the questions might lead us. And next
week, at the beginning, if you have questions relative to what I’ve said
today, we will take time for that because, to tell you the truth, I hope
you do have questions. I hope it moves you to the consideration of
uncomfortable things, which will cause you to have questions that will
be less fuzzy than you might otherwise have had, and because of their
focus will lead to answers that will be even more illuminating.

Do you know how much I love you?

Yes! We love you too!

I look forward to being with you next week.









A Course In Miracles (reference pages)

Chapter 3 – RETRAINING THE MIND – Section: CONFLICT AND THE EGO (Raj did
not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July 2003, therefore,
there can be a lot of difference in the readings.) Sparkly Book – p.55,
2nd Full Par.   /   JCIM – p.23, 3rd Full Par.  /   CIMS – p.47, Par. 44
Chapter 3 – THE INNOCENT PERCEPTION – Section:  ERROR AND THE EGO 1
First Edition  –  p. 38   /    Second Edition – p 42, Par. 5 2 Students
– commenting or asking a question.
