---
title: Aug 3, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good afternoon.  And again welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
internet. For those who might be joining for the first time on the
internet, I will not be reading from either the first or second edition
of the Course but rather from the transcript as prepared by Bill
Thetford. So when you find differences between what I’m reading and what
you’re reading in the first and second editions, you will understand
why.

Okay. And the section is entitled:

LOVE WITHOUT CONFLICT 1

You have never understood what “the Kingdom of Heaven is within you”
means. The reason you have not understood it is because it is NOT
understandable to the ego, which interprets it as if something outside
is inside, and this does not mean anything. The word “within” is
unnecessary. The Kingdom of Heaven IS you.  

And I’m going to repeat that.

The Kingdom of Heaven IS you. What else BUT you did the Creator create,
and what else BUT you is His Kingdom? This is the whole message of the
Atonement, a message, which, in its totality, transcends the sum of its
parts. Christmas is not a time; it is a state of mind.  

And I’m going to add: Just as Being is.

Continuing . . .

The Christ Mind wills from the Soul, NOT from the ego, and the Christ
Mind IS yours.  

This pretty well summarizes what we talked about last week and what
we’ve been talking about for some weeks now. And that is that the Mind
that you are using to give definitions to everything is the Christ Mind
and the Mind that you are using to believe the definitions you are
giving to everything instead of the full capital “M” Meaning that God Is
Expressing In Everything, is the Christ Mind. It’s the only Mind there
is. And you either allow it to be the Absolute Fullness and Totality of
You, or you imaginatively use it as though it’s a tool with which you
can be creative, like the Father, while ignoring the Father completely.

This is why the Kingdom of Heaven is you. Returning Home is you coming
back into your Right Mind. It’s not a place. It’s you returning to
Sanity.

Continuing . . .

You, too, have a kingdom which your Soul created. It . . .   

. . . meaning your Soul . . .

. . . has NOT ceased to create because your ego has set you on the road
of perception.  

Or definitions.

Your Soul’s creations are no more fatherless than YOU are. Your ego and
your Soul will never be co-creators, but your Soul and YOUR Creator will
ALWAYS be. Be confident that your creations are as safe as you are.  

And I’m going to remind you again that the way in which you fully
awakened are co-creators with God lies in the fact that when you are not
presenting any suggestion of independent authorship, you, in so many
words, sit on God’s Shoulder while God Be’s The Movement Of Creation.
And you are the observing of the Movement of Creation. In other words,
you are allowing your Mind to have nothing present in it but the Mind of
God that is the Movement of Creation and your Function is to be the
Conscious Awareness of that Movement of Creation in Its Totality with
God simultaneously.

In this way, the Movement of Creation becomes yours. Not as a separate
creator but as nothing less and nothing more than the Conscious, the
full Conscious Experience of All of the Meaning of the Movement of
Creation. You become co-creators by virtue of not introducing anything
extraneous any longer to the Movement of Creation that God Is Being.

When it says, “Be confidant that your creations are as safe as you are,”
it means that what has truly been Being, what has truly been Created all
the time you have been dallying with the ego and you apparently have
missed it because of your preoccupation with what you have made-up, all
of that will become available to you once again as Eternal and as ever
available to you as your Conscious Experience. All of Reality that has
been occurring while you have been dallying with the ego will become
your Conscious Experience once again.

Continuing . . .

“The Kingdom is perfectly united and perfectly protected, and  the ego
will NOT prevail against it, — Amen.”  

That was written in that form because it is a good thing to use as a
kind of a prayer in moments of temptation.  

Mmm. Moments of temptation? Like what? Well, like, “I’ve got a
headache.” Or the suggestion is whispered in your ear by the ego that
says, “Ooo, your financial picture is pretty tight and you know you have
some demands coming up and you’re not going to be able to meet them and
therefore it’s appropriate for you to indulge in fear.” Those are
moments of temptation to become further distracted and further
preoccupied with a consciousness of existence that has nothing to do
with God and with your Birthright of Wholeness.

When that happens, it is helpful to remind yourself quote, “The Kingdom
is perfectly united, and perfectly protected.” In other words, it isn’t
being altered by my momentary perception of lack and the fear that it’s
generating. My Wholeness is still Whole and Untouched, and the ego will
not prevail against it.

Now, the ego is not going to not prevail against it because you’re
making this declaration. The ego is not going to prevail against it
because Reality is unalterable and the ego is purely imaginary, and
therefore has no capacity to accomplish a thing.

Continuing, regarding the prayer:

It is a Declaration of Independence.  

Hmmm. Dangerous words, “declaration of independence,” because your ego
state of mind is itself a declaration of independence from God. So this
has to be referring to your Birthright of independence from being the
puppet of an imaginary presence that you call the ego.

Making this declaration of independence, recognizing that you need not
play into being governed by the suggestion that fear is justified, is
not enough. The declaration of independence says, in so many words,
“There is another way to look at this.” But that acknowledgement is not
all that’s necessary. It is then necessary to turn to the Father, to
turn to the Altar within, and say, “What is the Truth here? What is
another way to look at this that embodies the Father’s Will so that I
may know that I am safe and whole and that the ego’s suggestion of fear
is totally unjustified?” So the declaration of independence from the ego
is the first step in turning toward the answer that completely nullifies
whatever the suggestion is that the ego has put before you and enticed
you with.

Continuing . . .

[Raj did not read the next sentence: You will find it very helpful if
you understand it fully.]

In its characteristically upside-down way, the ego has taken the
impulses from the superconscious and perceives them as if they arise in
the unconscious.  

What are the impulses from the superconscious? Simply the insight, the
inspiration, that comes from the Father to you when you have turned
toward the Altar. So . . .

In its characteristically upside-down way, the ego has taken the
impulses from the superconscious and perceives them as if they arise in
the unconscious. The ego judges what is to be accepted, and the impulses
from the superconscious are unacceptable to it because they clearly
point to the nonexistence of the ego itself. The ego therefore
experiences threat, and not only censors but also reinterprets the data.
However, as Freud correctly pointed out, what you have repressed can
retain a very active life BEYOND your awareness.  

This is a very important point because it’s something you can depend on.
If you repress the Allness of God and His Fatherhood, then . . . and if
you repress that, you may know it has a life of its own that goes on
beyond your willingness to recognize it. And it goes on, on your behalf
constantly. That’s good news.

Continuing . . .

Repression thus operates to conceal not only the baser impulses but also
the most lofty ones from awareness because BOTH are threatening to the
ego and, being concerned primarily with its own preservation in the face
of threat, the ego perceives them AS THE SAME. The threat-value of the
lofty is actually much greater to the ego because the pull of God
Himself can hardly be equated with the pull of human appetites. By
perceiving them AS the same, the ego attempts to save itself from being
swept away, as it would surely BE in the presence of knowledge.  

Or Knowing.

The upper level of the unconscious thus contains the Call of God as well
as the call of the body. That is why the basic conflict between Love and
fear is unconscious; the ego cannot tolerate either, and represses both
by resorting to inhibition. Society depends on inhibiting the latter, .
.  

. . . meaning fear . . .

. . . but SALVATION depends on DISinhibiting the former.  

Meaning Love.

The reason you need MY help is because you have repressed your own
Guide, and therefore need guidance. My role is to separate the true from
the false in your unconscious, so it can break through the barriers the
ego has set up, and shine into your minds. Against our united strength
the ego CANNOT prevail.  

Again, this is so very important and it’s the reason that I’m reading
from the transcript, because in the transcript it makes it clear that my
communion with Helen and Bill was the point, not the message. The
message is important, but it is our joining, it is our communion, it is
our mutual working together, that promotes the actual shift in
consciousness that each of you needs to undergo. And I am constantly
reminding you in these Gatherings that I am available to each one of you
directly, just as your Guides are, and that We are there for the purpose
of joining, for the purpose of communion, because it’s in that ending of
isolation that the shift back into your Sanity is facilitated. It is the
means of coming Home.

Continuing . . .

It should be apparent to you by now why the ego regards the Soul as its
“enemy.” The ego arose from the separation, and its continued existence
depends on YOUR continuing belief in the separation.  

You see?

Having reduced the Soul impulses to the unconscious, the ego has to
offer you some sort of reward for maintaining this belief.  

This mindset. This definition.

All it CAN offer is a sense of temporary existence, which begins with
its OWN beginning and ends with its OWN ending. It tells you this life
is YOUR existence because it IS its own.  

And remember last week we were talking about the three questions you
have, “Who am I?”, “What am I?” and “Why am I here?” You have those
questions because the ego’s existence is temporary. It’s not real, but
it’s claiming to be. And because it itself is a denial of God, it is a
denial of That which gives Real Identity to you. And so your sense of
yourself is temporary, identity-less, without any Conscious Experience
of what your true, real, meaningful Function is.

Continuing . . .

Against this sense of temporary existence the Soul offers you the
knowledge . . .  

. . . the Knowing . . .

. . . of permanence and unshakable BEING. No-one who has experienced the
revelation of THIS can ever fully believe in the ego again. How can its
meager offering to you prevail against the glorious gift of God?  

I’m adding the word “naturally” here.

[Naturally] You who identify WITH your egos cannot believe that God
loves you. YOU . . .  

. . . identifying with your egos . . .

. . . do not love what you have made, and what you made does not love
YOU. Being made out of the denial of the Father, the ego has no
allegiance to its own maker.  

And again, to be clear here, being made out of the denial of the Father,
the Christ That You Are is unconscious of the Father and therefore has
no means of giving allegiance to Its own Maker—God.

You must remember that the ego isn’t a thing in itself. It’s a Christ
choosing to give new definitions to everything, believing the
definitions, and in the process losing the full Conscious Awareness of
Its Christhood because it’s preferring the definition of itself that it
has created for itself. And in that state of affairs, the Christ That
You Are has no allegiance to Its own Maker which is God. Again, it
doesn’t make any of this true. But this is the understanding of the
dynamic that makes things seem the way they seem to be.

Continuing . . .

You cannot conceive of the real relationship which exists between God
and His Souls because of the hatred you have for the self YOU have made.
You project onto your OWN idea of yourself the will to separate, which
conflicts with the love you feel for what you made BECAUSE you made it.
No human love is without this ambivalence, . .  

. . . in other words, no love that you have for anything you made
separate from God is without this ambivalence.

. . . and since no ego has experienced love WITHOUT ambivalence, the
concept is beyond its understanding.  

Because it’s beyond its understanding, resolution of the “problem of
being” cannot occur from within the ego’s perceptions, the ego’s quote
“understanding” unquote. And that is why awakening requires your
reaching beyond your best definitions, your best thoughts, your best
principles, to Know what the Truth is that you didn’t create.

Continuing . . .

Love will enter immediately into ANY mind which truly wants it, but it
MUST want it truly. This means that it wants it WITHOUT ambivalence, and
this kind of wanting is wholly without the ego’s “drive to get.” There
is a kind of experience which is so different from anything the ego can
offer that you will never recover.  The word “recover” is used quite
literally here,—you will never be able to cover or hide again. It is
necessary to repeat here that your belief in darkness and in hiding IS
why the Light cannot enter.  

Remember that your beliefs are powerful for you because they are
definitions you have created which you have invested confidence, trust
and commitment in, and where you give your commitment is what you will
have. And until you will for something different, it will not change.

At the bottom line beliefs are houses built upon sand, houses built out
of straw. Beliefs are insubstantial and structurally unsound. Beliefs
are imaginary. But when you create the belief and you make commitment to
it, the laws that you apply to it are the laws by which you will govern
your conscious awareness of things and you will disallow for the full
Conscious Experience of What Is Real. And so, for you, you will be in a
limited experience even though the Fullness of the Kingdom of Heaven is
going on without interruption and without alteration.

Again . . .

Love will enter immediately into ANY mind which truly wants it, but it
MUST want it truly.  

And the experience of it is so different from anything the ego can offer
that you will never re-cover, never be able to cover or hide again.

Continuing . . .

The Bible gives many references to the immeasurable gifts which are FOR
you, but for which YOU must ask.  

And the only reason you must ask for them is because you have denied
them, you have blocked them out of your experience. You have said, “I
don’t want them. I want only what I have made-up for myself.” You, in so
many words, set them outside the door of your tiny limit of conscious
awareness. And because you set them out there, you must invite them back
in. You must undo your denial. You must undo your objection to Reality.

Continuing . . .

This is not a condition as the ego sets conditions. It is the glorious
condition of what you ARE.  

This is very important.

No force except your own will is strong enough or worthy enough to guide
you. In this you are as free as God, and must remain so forever. You can
never be bound except in honor, and that is always voluntary. Let us ask
the Father in my name to keep you mindful of His Love for you and yours
for Him.  

You can reach out to the Father for His Love by yourself, but I invite
you to do it with Me consciously so that you might have My support when
your commitment is weak, when your willingness falters.

Continuing . . .

He has never failed to answer this request because it asks only for what
He has already willed. Those who call truly are ALWAYS answered. Thou
shalt have no other gods before Him because there ARE none.  

And it’s time for you to stop making gods out of your own definitions,
out of the understandings that you have come to through your human
reasoning based upon your being a mortal.

Continuing . . .

It has never really entered your mind to give up every idea you ever had
that OPPOSES knowledge.  

Or Knowing. One of the reasons it has never really entered your mind to
give up every idea you ever had that opposes Knowing is because you
didn’t know there was such a thing as Knowing. You didn’t know that the
Mind of God is your Mind to be experienced from God’s Perspective. You
thought that you had a mind like God which God gave you as a creation
separate from Him and that you were to honor and use this mind on your
own. So it was natural not to ever have the idea enter your mind to give
up all of your thoughts.

You retain thousands of little scraps of meanness which prevent the Holy
One from entering.  

And without going into gross levels of meanness, let’s just say that an
idea that you have to look at a thing and determine what it is by
yourself without the Father, that’s a mean idea. It’s not an embracing
idea. It’s a very private separate selfish idea.

Continuing . . .

Light cannot penetrate through the walls you make to block it, and it is
forever unwilling to destroy what you have made. No-one can see THROUGH
a wall, but I can step around it. Watch your minds for the scraps of
meanness, or you will be unable to ask me to do so. I can help you only
as our Father created us. I will love you and honor you and maintain
complete respect for what you have made, but I will neither honor it nor
love it unless it is true.  

And you know what? That makes me your best friend. But you can’t pull
shit on me. [some audience laughs] And when you do so out of habit and
not out of conscious meanness, I will not join you in agreement about
it. And I will clarify the discrepancy without calling your Integrity
into question. I will do it by holding before you a clear sense of the
fact that you not only have Integrity, you are Integrity Embodied
because You’re God Expressed.

And I will confirm that to you in ways that will help you to see that
your devotion to a contrary belief is useless and meaningless, but not
self-demeaning of you. Because by virtue of confronting you with your
unchangeable Integrity, it’s obvious to you that you thereby have an
Integrity with which to disagree with an ignorance or a flaw in your
thinking. You are strong enough. You are credible enough. You are Real
enough to be able to deny a definition you gave to yourself or to your
world without threatening or undermining your existence. And that is
very important.

Continuing . . .

I will never forsake you, any more than God will, but I MUST wait as
long as you choose to forsake yourself.  

Now not only must I wait, I will gladly wait. I will gladly forever
stand ready to help you the moment you decide for whatever reason that
it’s no longer worth it to you to try to create the world and universe
out of whole cloth, out of pure imagination. And that it’s not worth it
to you to continue longer experiencing the frustration of no real
fulfillment felt. So I must wait and I will wait.

Continuing . . .

Because I wait in love and not in impatience you will surely ask me
truly. I will come in response to a single unequivocal call. Watch
carefully and see what it is you are really asking for. Be very honest
with yourself about this, for we must hide nothing from each other. If
you will really try to do this, you have taken the first step toward
preparing your mind for the Holy One to enter. We will prepare for this
together, for once He has come you will be ready to help me make other
minds ready for Him. How long will you deny Him His Kingdom?  

Put another way, how long will you deny yourself the experience of the
fact that You Are The Kingdom?

Continuing . . .

In your own unconscious, . . 

We could say in your own unconsciousness of God.

. . . deeply repressed by the ego, is the declaration of your release.
GOD HAS GIVEN YOU EVERYTHING. This is the one fact that means the ego
does not exist, and which therefore makes it profoundly afraid. In the
ego’s language, remember, “to have” and “to be” are different, but they
are identical to the Soul. The Soul knows that you both HAVE everything
and ARE everything. Any distinction in this respect is meaningful only
when the idea of “getting,” which implies a lack, has ALREADY been
accepted.  

In other words, when that thought becomes a definition of reality to you
and you embrace it and make commitment to it, it becomes for you a fact.

Continuing . . .

That is why we made no distinction before between HAVING the Kingdom of
God and BEING the Kingdom of God.  

The calm being of God’s Kingdom, which in your sane mind is perfectly
conscious, . . 

Perfectly conscious.

. . . is ruthlessly banished from the part of the mind which the ego
rules.  The ego is desperate because it opposes literally invincible
odds, whether you are asleep or awake. Consider how much vigilance you
have been willing to exert to protect your ego, and how little you have
been willing to expend to protect your higher mind. Who but the insane
would undertake to believe what is not true, and then protect this
belief at the COST of truth?  

Well, who would? And the practical and helpful answer is you wouldn’t if
you knew better.

You see how that answer leaves your self-respect and integrity intact?
If I said the answer was, “Well, only an idiot would do that!”, well,
now we’d have to spend some time undoing all of the feelings you have
about being an idiot.

If you knew better, you wouldn’t do it. And so the solution to that
problem is for someone to tell you how to do it better. And you know
what? That’s what you get from your Guide. That’s what you get from the
Holy Spirit. It doesn’t convict you of anything. It shows you that you
are more than what you thought you were. You are more than the
definition you have been applying to yourself. And it helps you feel
from that greater definition or greater Truth about you, the strength,
the impulse to abandon your definition so that you might not unknowingly
be bound by an ignorance and might be freed by Knowing the Truth.
Because you deserve to Know the Truth because You Are God’s Expression.
You are something more than the puny, measly definition of yourself that
you have been applying to yourself.

It’s very simple really. When you have made up a definition of yourself
and you are no longer consciously embodying the Divine Meaning that the
Father Has Expressed and that appears as You, then, as we’ve said
before, you feel separate, alone, vulnerable, fearful. And everything
that comes after that is a conscious means of defending yourself in this
irrevocable state of vulnerability that you find yourself experiencing.

And therefore, love is never really love when you express it. It’s
always serving you as a defense. As a result, love is conflicted. Love
that is used as a defense is a conflicted expression of something which
in itself, if it weren’t being used for defense, would uncover to you
the fact that there isn’t one single element of anything that is at odds
with you, and therefore there is no need for self-defense of any sort.

And so this section that we’ve been reading makes this clear so that you
might make a choice for real Love. The real capacity, first of all, to
feel God’s Love for you because you have decided to become defenseless
against God and let God in by invitation on your part. And then in the
infilling of Love that you are filled by, extending it without conflict
to your Brother and to your world and to your universe so that its
extension is not an act of defense in any way.

Now, doing this is the first step, the pushing and the causing to fall
of the first domino. Because when you Love from this Place of
Unconflicted Love, it is felt by others. And whether they can put their
finger on it or not, something has changed in their life. And they can’t
ever be quite as covered up again. And so you become an agent for
change, if you will. Change of what? Change of the minds, the hearts,
you might say, of your Brothers and Sisters.

The need is to get back to Unconflicted Love. It’s your Birthright. And
you know what else? It is your Joy to Experience because in the
Experience of it you discover again that this is your Function, this is
your Purpose. It is not why you are here. It is why you exist, period!
And if it is your Function, that is Who You Are. Who You Are Is Love.
What You Are Is Love.

This is why you keep hearing the simplicity. Love one another. Do unto
others as you would have them to do unto you. If you would like them to
come from the Place of Excellence in Themselves, that which reflects God
in them, then you come from the Place of Excellence in You, that Place
Where God Is in You. Love one another. As I have loved you, love one
another. Love is the answer. It’s an age-old song, shall I say, an
age-old melody, an age-old theme.

But unfortunately, it’s been taken as an idea for little independent
egos to embody and actualize from their little tiny egohood. And so you
get zealots. You get little egos running around being loving, extending
love to their neighbor, which literally is meant cramming it down their
throat. It’s been a matter of figuring out what love is. Well, love must
be good behavior. It must be kindness. It must be thoughtfulness. And so
you put together a package of behaviors that you all mutually agree are
the definition of Love.

But again, nobody’s thought to ask God what is Love. Nobody has thought
to turn to God and say, “You know what? The only thing I can do is to
make-up a bunch of ideas about what Love is and create a package of
definitions and a criteria of behaviors that then I can implement. But
you know what? I don’t get a feeling from that. I only get a result of,
let’s say, improved harmony with everyone. But I don’t get a feeling
with it. I don’t get a feeling of connection with my Brother. There’s
just a sort of a physical harmony.

“And so God, because my definitions of Love and my implementation of my
definitions of Love, because they aren’t fulfilling, I’m willing to set
them aside, Father, and ask You to provide me with the Experience Of
Being Loved By You. I would like to have the experience of not being
separate and apart where I have to make-up my own definitions and then
convince everyone else of them and try and make them work in the world I
see. Help me. Fill me up with the Experience Of Being Loved. And I, with
all of my ability, will attempt to be defenseless enough to not block
Your Entry into my conscious awareness. I invite You in and I realize
that it’s my responsibility to let You in because You never ever
withdrew from me. I will even ask you to help me be more defenseless,
more yielding.”

Someone here asked, “Are we talking about defenselessness only to God?”
And the answer to that is “Yes” because until you become defenseless
against God, Which is the Source of your Being and therefore that which
gives you the Experience of Identity, you will still see yourself as
separate from your Brothers and Sisters, and any expression of love that
you make from that state of separateness is always going to involve, as
I said earlier, certain elements of self-defense which means that its
not really Love.

The only way any of you will find yourself able to extend Unconflicted
Love is to become defenseless against the Father first, because it’s the
infilling of the Love That God Is that will uncover to you your Divine
Function as the Son or Daughter of God. And it is in that experience of
infilling that you have the Love of God, you might say, to pass on to
your Brother and Sister. And that Love will be unconflicted and will
embody no elements of defense, will be unconflicted in any way.

That is what has been bandied about as unconditional love. Again, note
unconditional love has been a concept which little egos have been trying
to implement and embody again without ever joining with the Father where
the Living Love of God is available and which when you allow It into
yourself and through you, becomes unconditional Love expressed to your
Brother and Sister. You see?

Now the next section, which we will not go into today, is entitled, “The
Escape From Fear.” And I think that you can begin to see that the escape
from fear is the result of inviting in and letting flow through you,
unconflicted Love.

(This is me, Paul. Just a moment.)

While I have been speaking, I have been being with all of you sort of
like a roto-rooter facilitating deep changes, deep shifts within you. An
Expression of My Love.

And so, without any further embellishment, we will end for today, except
that I will let you know that next Sunday after I have spoken as I’ve
spoken today, since there’s been no opportunity for the last month or so
for anyone to ask questions or make comments or objections, we will take
a period of time after the discussion of the Course for you to bring up
questions relative to what we’ve been discussing and pursue them more
deeply, let us say.

And so I will say I Love You and I look forward to being with you all
next week.

Chapter 4 – THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL – Section:  LOVE WITHOUT CONFLICT (Raj
is now reading from the Sparkly Book—there can be a lot of difference in
the readings.) 1 Sparkly Book – p.75   /   JCIM – p.32  /   CIMS – p.64
Chapter 4 – THE ILLUSIONS OF THE EGO – Section:  LOVE WITHOUT CONFLICT
First Edition  –  p. 54   /    Second Edition – p 60
