---
title: Nov 23, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good afternoon.  And welcome to everyone who is joining us on the
Internet. 

I would like a show of hands. Have any of you ever found studying or
reading the Course depressing?

Frustrating, kind of. 1

Frustrating is a distress. Well, let me say this right now. That isn’t
supposed to be, that isn’t intended to be the result. But it is
understandable that that reaction occurs because as you read, it appears
that you are being taught that you are all insane to one degree or
another. And the nature of your insanity is picked apart piece by piece
and illuminated to you. And what I want to address right now is that to
have mistakes that you’re making uncovered to you is not a process by
which you become convicted of wrongdoing, although the ego will use it
that way.

The mutually-agreed-upon definitions that you have evolved, and the
agreement that you have amongst each other is all called into question
by the Course. The reason being that these agreements have been arrived
at on a false basis. And if no one tells you this, you’re stuck. If
someone tells you this, it doesn’t mean you’re convicted. It means that
you have the information necessary in order to do something different,
in order to get unstuck. And so, the purpose of the Course is to inspire
you, not convict you and depress you.

I notice however, and I’m not addressing this specifically to those of
you in this room, but I notice, however, that many students of the
Course pick up on the apparent fault-finding that seems to be part of
the Course and they go on internal witch hunts within themselves, and
they go on external witch hunts exploring the faults of others,
uncovering the faults of others. And they call this love, because they
think this is what the Course is about.

We’ve been going through the Course for over a year now, and I think
that if you will look back, you will find that I have been pointing your
eyes and your attention in the direction of acknowledging God where you
haven’t been looking for God—right in the petals of the flower, in the
glass on the table, the trees outside, and each other.

I have been doing everything I can to inspire curiosity and openness of
mind, that which does not call into play self-defense, because it has
your attention turned toward something other than yourself, other than
your current sense of yourself.

Oh, in the last two weeks we’ve talked about the non-materiality of
matter, the fact that everything that you see and can touch is pure
Spirit and is Idea rather than a physical object, that the Energy of
Spirit that constitutes your body is not a physical energy, it is pure
Idea.

Now, how many of you have become curious about the capability that you
each have to move this idea from one place to another instantaneously,
because there is no mass of matter to have to move by means of laws of
physics? In other words, teleportation, or even levitation, or walking
through a wall.

And of course, we have ongoingly talked about the fact that healing can
be instantaneous because there is no physical mass of matter that has to
reconfigure while being obedient to the laws of matter, or what you
could call the laws of physics. And so how many of you have been being
curious enough to explore the healing of a mole or a wrinkle or a
disease that you seem to have? And to persist with it.

You see, the point is to be inspired, to not become obsessed with the
way things appear to you. The presence of a mole that is not attractive
does not express the beauty and symmetry of your perfect body. The
desire to see God right there where your body is, where this Idea is
that is perfectly visible and tangible to mind without having any
material accompaniments to it at all.

I promise you that as you begin to be curious to see beyond the
definitions you’ve currently given everything, you will find the intent
raising objections in you. In other words, whatever resistances you have
to healing or levitating or teleporting will present themselves to you,
and then you can address them. You don’t have to go on a witch hunt to
find all your flaws before you can turn toward God.

The point is to turn toward God first. And then, whatever openness you
have to seeing more of the Presence of God where you are will, in
itself, uncover to you the reasons you don’t think it can happen.

You will find yourself saying, “Mmm. Well, let’s say that I actually
succeeded in teleporting to the base of the Eiffel Tower. I might be so
excited by the experience that I couldn’t possibly have enough peace to
get back. And what would I do then in France without a passport?” You
see?

You will find resistances presenting themselves to you. And those are
the ones for you to release, those are the ones for you to ask the
Father or your Guide, “How do I look at this? Reinterpret this for me,
so that I may either see the Truth of it, or the lie of it, and let it
go.” In other words, start pushing the boundaries. Start pushing your
boundaries. Start letting your mind move outside the box, instead of
being obsessed with the current status quo.

We’ve been discussing the fact that the human condition with all of its
suffering and misery and depression and so on, is a result of one thing
only. The attempt to be autonomous, the attempt to be an independent
authorizer, the attempt to see and think about everything while leaving
God out of the picture, and to determine what everything is for
yourself.

Obviously, the solution to that problem is not going to come through
further self-examination. The solution is going to come from reaching
outside, inviting something else in. A simple thing that we’ve been
talking about all along.

And so, I encourage you, especially over this next two-week period in
which there is a holiday set aside for what? Gratitude! Use these two
weeks to push the boundaries, to desire to experience what is beyond
what you’re currently experiencing, but which, if I’m telling you the
Truth, is present for you to experience. That every flower, every tree,
every object you see, every paper cup, every CD, every object you see is
an idea, and even though it’s tangible and perceptible to you, it is
still pure idea. It is still pure energy and has no material
accompaniments, no physical mass that must abide by physical laws, laws
of physics.

Everything you see is capable of responding to and reflecting the Mind
of God without being bound by anything other than the Father’s Intent.
And that is why as you abandon a sick sense of yourself, a diseased
sense of yourself, there can be instantaneous reconfiguration. And
that’s why when there is a shift of your attention from one location to
another, there can be immediate movement to the new location without the
use of an airplane or any other physical means of travel.

What holds you in the human condition is your fascination with, and your
commitment to, the attempt to be an independent authorizer. An
independent, I’m going to say, visionary where you can make up the
vision that you want to see and then see it, and thereby cause it to be
real, separate and apart from Creation Itself as the Father Is Being It.

So let’s read and let’s find out about redefining or retranslating
obsession, preoccupation, undying commitment to your personal goals,
undying commitment to your personal goals that keeps you from
experiencing Life fully, wholly, Divinely, satisfyingly and joyfully.

Again I will be reading from the transcript as prepared by Bill
Thetford. And this section is entitled:

THE ETERNAL FIXATION 2

[Editor’s Note: The first 7 paragraphs are not in the first and second
editions.]

The idea of “set” is among the better psychological concepts. Actually,
it is used quite frequently in the Bible and also in this course under
many different terms. For example, “God will keep him in perfect peace
whose mind is stayed (or set) on Him,” a statement which means that
God’s peace is set in the Holy Spirit because it is fixed on God. It is
also fixed in you. You, then, ARE fixed in the peace of God. The concept
of “fixation” is also a very helpful one which Freud understood
perfectly. Unfortunately, he lost his understanding because he was
afraid, and, as you know all too well, fear is incompatible with good
judgment. Fear distorts thinking, and therefore DISorders thought.  

Freud’s system of thought was extremely ingenious because Freud was
extremely ingenuous, and a mind MUST endow its thoughts with its own
attributes. This is its inherent strength, although it may misuse its
power. Freud lost much of the potential value of his thought system
because he did NOT include himself in it. This is a dissociated state
because the thinker cuts himself off from his thoughts. Freud’s thought
was so conflicted that he could not have retained his sanity as HE saw
it WITHOUT dissociation. That is why the many contradictions which are
quite apparent in his thinking became increasingly less apparent to HIM.
A man who knows what fixation really means and yet does not yield to it
is terribly afraid.  

Now listen to this.

Fixation is the pull of God, on Whom your mind IS fixed because of the
Holy Spirit’s irrevocable set.  

Remember the Holy Spirit is nothing more than your Right Mind. Your
Right Mind is forever fixed on God. Devoted. Committed. And truly
incapable of having any other focus of attention.

As I’ve made clear to you, you can imagine that you can give your
attention elsewhere, and then you can believe your imagination. And then
you can make commitment to your imagination and become so involved with
it that you forget what your only true capacity to make commitment
involves, which is glorifying God, recognizing God in every single
thing, recognizing what is Real in every single thing, rather than what
you have determined it to be.

Continuing . . .

“Irrevocable” means “cannot be called back or redirected.” The
irrevocable nature of the Holy Spirit’s set . . .  

. . . or you could say “fixation”. . .

. . . is the basis for His unequivocal Voice. The Holy Spirit NEVER
changes His mind. Clarity of thought CANNOT occur under conditions of
vacillation.  

So what does that mean? That means that this Place of Excellence in You,
the Presence of the Holy Spirit that is your Right Mind, is actually
incapable of vacillation. Your Essential Being is utterly stable right
now, utterly clear right now, utterly intelligent right now, completely
at Peace right now, and it never varies. You in your Right Mind are
never in a state of variance, unevenness, disturbance, distress . . .
right now.

What keeps you from experiencing it? The fact that in your attempt to
look at everything through your own imagination and arriving at
agreed-upon definitions with each other, you take this Divine Nature of
yours to be fixated, to be unvaryingly committed to God, and you apply
it to what you want to give your attention to. This Divine One That You
Are uses Its Capacity to be unswervingly clear and focused on the Truth,
you take it and apply it to what you are choosing to believe, the
definitions you are choosing to give to everything. And you become
obsessed with that activity. You become inappropriately fixated. But the
fixation arises out of your Divine Capacity to be fixated on God, which
is your Function.

Continuing . . .

Unless a mind is fixed in its purpose it is NOT clear. Clarity literally
means the state of light, and enlightenment IS understanding.
Enlightenment stands UNDER perception because you have denied it as the
REAL foundation of thought.  

And . . .

This is the basis for ALL delusional systems.  

Enlightenment doesn’t really stand under perception, but that’s the
definition you’ve given to it and so it seems to be so for you.

Continuing . . .

The concept of fixation, as Freud saw it, has a number of learning
advantages. First, it recognizes that man can be fixated at a point in
development which does NOT accord with a point in time.  

You’ve all, at one time or another, heard someone say, “Yes, he or she
is 17 going on 34, or 34 going on 18,” meaning that someone has . . .
their development has been arrested, you might say, at 18 years-old,
even though they’re older. They’ve become fixated at a point of
development that has nothing to do with their actual years. You can all
become fixated in your growth.

Continuing. In fact, repeating . . .

First, it recognizes that man can be fixated at a point in development
which does NOT accord with a point in time. This clearly could have been
a means toward real release from the time belief had Freud pursued it
with an open mind. Freud, however, suffered all his life from refusal to
allow eternity to dawn upon his mind and enlighten it truly. As a
result, he overlooked NOW entirely, and merely saw the continuity of
past and future.  

Second, although Freud misinterpreted what the Holy Spirit told him, or
better, reminded him of, he was too honest to deny more than was
necessary to keep his fear in tolerable bounds as he perceived the
situation. Therefore, he emphasized that the point in development at
which the mind is fixated is more real to ITSELF than the external
reality with which it disagrees.  

Does that make sense to you? It’s what we’ve been talking about. Your
definitions that you give to everything, and the mutual agreements that
you come to about those things, means that you are giving greater
importance to your definition than to What The Thing Really Is, and you
are becoming fixated on your definition.

Again . . .

Therefore, he emphasized that the point in development at which the mind
is fixated is more real to ITSELF than the external reality with which
it disagrees. This, again, could have been a powerful RELEASE mechanism
had Freud not decided to involve it in a strong DEFENSE system because
he perceived it as an attack.  

I come along and I share with you A Course In Miracles and I talk with
you and I uncover flaws in your thinking. I uncover illusions that you
are entertaining that you thought were real. And I say, “There is
something more here than what you’re seeing. You have bound yourself to
a limited perception and it’s time for you to enlarge your boundaries.
It’s time for you to let go of your tininess.”

And your ego says, “Attack! Attack! Everybody to their quarters! Attack!
Attack! Take your stations!” You see?

Freud had the same problem. And so Freud used psychology so as to be
able to better defend the threat without giving up the illusion. In
other words, now you know what your problem is, now we’re going to learn
how to live with it. We’re going to accept the problem, but we’re going
to learn how to minimize its effects by greater self-discipline of your
mind. You see?

Continuing . . .

Third, although Freud interpreted fixation as involving irrevocable
“danger points” to which the mind could always regress, the concept can
also be interpreted as an irrevocable call to sanity which the mind
cannot LOSE.  

You see? There’s the redefinition that leads to freedom.

Continuing . . .

Freud himself could not accept this interpretation, but throughout his
thought system, the “threat” of fixation remained, and could never be
eliminated by any living human being. Essentially, this was the basis of
Freud’s pessimism, personally as well as theoretically. He tried every
means his very inventive mind could devise to set up a form of therapy
which could enable the mind to escape from fixation forever, even though
he KNEW this was impossible.  

Do you see what I was saying there? I was saying that Freud’s
recognition of fixation, which was a new recognition, was the Holy
Spirit’s reminding him that the very state of Divine Being, of Being
Itself, involved fixation, involved one’s unswerving attentiveness to
God in the Movement of Creation so as to be joined in the Movement of
Creation, and so as to experience What You Are in your Totality as you
were created to be, which again we could call co-creators with God. But
such a statement required abandoning the personal private sense of self
that you and Freud were entertaining, and that was too threatening to
him.

If you know something is impossible, why do you keep trying to invent .
. .

The question is asked, “If you know something is impossible, why do you
keep trying to invent . . .”

As he did. He knew, but he kept inventing.

Well, for the same reason that you do, or any of the rest of you do.
Because you have this very stubborn belief that you can actually
succeed, independent of God, in creating something that would be as Real
as what God is creating. You all believe this deeply. At the very center
of your Being you know this is impossible. Logically it’s impossible
because it’s impossible for you to actually be an independent thing.

You are having to use all of your Christ Capacity to create the
imagination. You are the Son of God, or the Daughter of God, and all of
this imagination that you’re engaging in, and all of this attempt that
you are engaged in, to be independent and create something on your own,
is utilizing the very thing that denies the accomplishment of the goal.
Do you see what I’m saying?

So we know it but we don’t know it.

It’s said, “So we know it, but we don’t know that we know it.”

 That is correct. You know it, but you are . . . you are ignoring what
 you know. You are burying it out of sight. You are repressing it. And
 all I’m encouraging all of you to do is to stop doing this. But the
 draw, you might say, the excitement of imagining that you have the
 potential to be an independent creator along with God, standing
 alongside God in your own right, that has you hooked.

Continuing . . .

This knowledge . . .  

. . . that it’s impossible . . .

. . . plagued Freud’s belief in his own thought system at every turn
because he was both an honest man and a healer. He was therefore only
partially insane, and was unable to relinquish the HOPE of release even
though he could not cope with it. The reason for this amount of detail
is because YOU are in the same position. You . . .  

. . . and this doesn’t just apply to Helen and Bill but to every one of
you, every single one.

You were eternally fixated on God in your creation, and the pull of this
fixation is so strong that you will never overcome it. The reason is
perfectly clear. The fixation is on a level so high that it cannot BE
surmounted. You are ALWAYS being pulled back to your Creator because you
BELONG to Him.  

Ooh! [Whispered] “You belong to someone.” [spoken much louder] “You’re a
kept man. You’re a kept woman.” Insulting ain’t it? Yes, or comforting.
It all depends on how important it is to you to be a self-made man or
self-made woman.

Continuing . . .

Do you REALLY believe you can make a voice that can drown out His? Do
you REALLY believe that you can devise a thought system which can
separate you from His? Do you REALLY believe that you can plan for your
safety and joy better than He can?  

And believe it or not, your answers to all these questions are “yes.” At
least they are still “yes.”

But now, let’s not feel guilty about it. Let’s not get depressed about
it. But let’s recognize that you haven’t arrived yet. And if you haven’t
arrived yet, you’re standing on the threshold of discovery, and all you
have to do is to bring some curiosity, some genuine, playful curiosity
into play.

Continuing . . .

You need be neither careful nor careless; you need merely cast your
cares upon Him because He careth for YOU. You ARE His care because He
loves you. His Voice reminds you always that all hope is yours BECAUSE
of His care. You CANNOT choose to escape His care because that is not
His Will, but you CAN choose to accept His care and use the infinite
power OF His care for all those He created BY it.  

You see, here’s where the reinterpretation is and here’s where the shift
of fixation comes in. You’re not going to get rid of fixation. You’re
just going to abandon being fixated on illusions. And you’re going to
become fixated on the Light, as it were. You’re going to become fixated
on the avenue by means of which your fulfillment comes to you. Not the
avenue by means of which you generate your fulfillment, but the avenue
by means of which your fulfillment comes to you because He cares for
you.

Continuing . . .

There have been many healers who did not heal themselves. They have not
moved mountains by their faith because their faith was not whole.  

Any of these in the group here? Every single one of you are healers who
may, or may not, have healed themselves, who haven’t moved any
mountains. But these are the things . . . this is like the beginning of
a list of things to become curious about having the experience of, that
go outside the boundaries of your tiny, personal sense of yourself that
you’ve honored so completely that you haven’t allowed for any other
possibilities.

Again . . .

There have been many healers who did not heal themselves. They have not
moved mountains by their faith because their faith was not whole. Some
of them have healed the sick at times, but they have not raised the
dead.  

Oh! There’s another wonderful thing to add to the list. It’s one of the
things, it’s an experience that awaits every single one of you. And you
don’t have to be special to have the experience. Every single one of you
is qualified, pre-qualified, truly pre-qualified, and not a
pre-qualification that will go through after your credit is checked. You
are fully pre-qualified.

Continuing . . .

Unless the healer heals HIMSELF he does NOT believe that there is no
order of difficulty in miracles. He has not learned that EVERY mind God
created is equally worthy of being healed BECAUSE GOD CREATED IT WHOLE.
You are merely asked to return to God the mind as HE created it. 

Your mind as He created it.

He asks you only for what He gave, knowing that this giving will heal
you. Sanity IS wholeness, and the sanity of your brothers IS yours.  

Why should you listen to the endless insane calls which you think are
made upon you when you KNOW the Voice of God Himself is in you?   

In other words, why, why would you listen to the calls of your Brothers
and Sisters who say, “Behave yourself. You’re getting outside the box.
Behave yourself. That’s not a part of the agreed-upon definitions. You
don’t really believe you can be healed, do you? You don’t really believe
that you’re divine, do you?” Every means will be used to bring you back
in line with the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, including the ploy of
guilt that we were speaking of last week.

But, again . . .

Why should you listen to the endless insane calls which you think are
made upon you when you KNOW the Voice of God Himself is in you? 
 
See. Where are you going to fixate your attention? Where are you going
to obsess? Are you going to obsess on an illusion with your Brothers and
Sisters? Are you going to make their opinion about you “god” to you? Or
are you going to switch your fixation to God Whose Voice is in you,
Whose Voice is you? Are you going to begin to fixate on the Place of
Excellence in You that is the Excellent You That You Are and embody That
and let the chips fall where they may?

Continuing . . .

God commended His Spirit to you, and asks that you commend yours to Him.
He wills to keep it in perfect peace because you are of one mind and
Spirit with Him. Excluding yourself from the Atonement is the ego’s
last-ditch defense of its OWN existence. It reflects both the ego’s need
to separate, and your willingness to side with its separateness. This
willingness . . .  

. . . to side with its separateness . . .

. . . means THAT YOU DO NOT WANT TO BE HEALED.  

And that’s all in capital letters.

Here’s where it might seem to be a criticism of you. But what it is, is
a statement of the way the ego works, and that in order for the ego’s
definitions to be effective, you must be willing to agree with it. You
must bring your willingness into the picture. So, does this make you
guilty? That’s irrelevant. What it means is that in order to have a
different experience, all you have to do is redirect your willingness.
What are you willing to become fixated upon? That which it is your
fundamental nature to be? Or that which is absolutely foreign to you, is
totally imaginative and therefore not substantially real, and therefore
constitutes an illusory result? Which one are you going to make
commitment to?

You didn’t know you had made commitment to the latter because you didn’t
know there was any alternative. You had forgotten it because of your
fixation. Now you’re not unconscious of the other option any longer. Now
you have a choice. And now you can bring your willingness and express it
in a new direction that returns you to your Sanity, wholizes you, breaks
down the flimsy surface of the bubble that has been separating that of
you which is Divine on the inside of the bubble with that of you which
is Infinitely Present that is on the outside of the bubble.

Continuing . . .

But the time IS now. You have not been asked to work out the plan of
salvation yourselves because, . .  

. . . as I told you before, . .

. . . the remedy is NOT of your making. God Himself gave you the perfect
correction for everything you have made which is NOT in accord with His
holy Will. I have made His plan perfectly explicit to you, . .  

. . . and I’m adding this: And will continue to make it explicit as long
as I need to.

Continuing . . .

. . . and have also told you of your part in His plan, and how urgent it
is that you fulfill it. There is time for delay, . .  

. . . there is time for delay . . .

. . . but there need not be. God weeps at the “sacrifice” of His
Children who believe they are lost to Him.  

That’s another way of saying, “God cares.” And like any father or mother
or anyone who truly cares about another, there is a compassion that
comes into play when the one cared for is suffering needlessly. And
there is an outpouring that comes forth because of caring, to override
and overwhelm the nonsense that the loved one is suffering from. And it
continues to pour forth until the suffering ends.

Now, you as you sit here may not feel as though you are really suffering
at the moment. And I am grateful that that is the case. But until you
are experiencing Pure Joy at being Conscious because you are
experiencing your inseparability from God, compassion, and Love and
Clarity designed to cut through your defenses and register with the
Divine You that’s inside the bubble, comes forth from the Father and
from those of us in the Brotherhood Who Are Awake, and Sisterhood Those
of Us Who Are Awake, every one of your Guides, and most of all that
which is nothing more than your Right Mind, the Holy Spirit.

After all, it’s important for you to know that if you’re going to shift
your attention to God, that God and all Those Who Know they are
inseparable from God are reaching out to you, and have been reaching out
to you even before you knew that there was any alternative to the
current quote “state of being” unquote that you’re experiencing.

Continuing . . .

I have already told you that whenever you are not wholly joyous it is
because you have reacted with a lack of love to some Soul which God
created. Perceiving this as “sin,” you become defensive because you
EXPECT ATTACK. The decision to react in this way, however, is YOURS, and
can therefore be undone. It CANNOT be undone by repentance in the usual
sense, because this implies guilt. If you allow yourself to feel guilty
you will REINFORCE the error rather than allow it to be undone FOR you.  

Decisions CANNOT be difficult. This is obvious if you realize that you
must ALREADY have made a decision NOT to be wholly joyous if that is how
you feel. Therefore, the first step in the undoing is to recognize that
you ACTIVELY DECIDED WRONGLY, . .  

. . . oh dear! Another accusation? Another thing to feel guilty for? How
bad you are? No.

Therefore, the first step in the undoing is to recognize that you
ACTIVELY DECIDED WRONGLY, but can AS ACTIVELY DECIDE OTHERWISE.  

We’ve talked about shifting operating systems, and now we could talk
about shifting fixations.

Continuing . . .

Be very firm with yourselves in this, and keep yourselves fully aware of
the fact that the undoing process, which does NOT come from you, is
nevertheless WITHIN you because God placed it there.  

It’s the Holy Spirit.

YOUR part . . .  

. . . and here I am speaking to the Holy Spirit in you, but I’m also
speaking to who you think you are.

YOUR part is merely to return your thinking to the point at which the
error was made, and give it over to the Atonement in peace. Say to
yourselves the following as sincerely as you can, remembering that the
Holy Spirit . . .  

. . . that which is nothing more than your Right Mind.

. . . will respond fully to your slightest invitation:  

This is how you shift fixations. This is how you open the door to
shifting operating systems.

Quote . . .

“I must have decided wrongly because I am NOT at peace.  I made the
decision myself, but I can also decide otherwise.  I WILL to decide
otherwise because I WANT to be at peace.  I do NOT feel guilty because
the Holy Spirit will undo all the consequences of my wrong decision IF I
WILL LET HIM.  I WILL to let Him by allowing Him to decide for God for
me.”

You see, who you think you are in your ignorance of the awareness of
What You Divinely Are is what you think is a decision against God on
your own behalf. It’s a decision against God on behalf of your capacity
to successfully get a bill of divorcement from God and become the very
first Son or Daughter of God who has managed to mature into independent
Godhood status, and thereby having become the full-fledged expression of
God. I say “full-fledged” because the belief is that a child is always
to grow up and become an adult and break allegiance with the parents,
and be an adult like them in their own right. And that’s the means by
which you justify the way you behave in your families, as well as the
way you approach, or shall I say, leave God.

As you give your attention to that Place of Excellence in You and you
open up to It, and you decide to yield to It, and the bubble begins to
burst, what you’re doing is letting the Holy Spirit, that which is
nothing more than your Right Mind, decide for God because It’s fixed on
God and It makes the decision for you, because in the act of yielding,
you’re not in full command and full awareness of Who You Are. And so It
makes the decision for God for you. And because you are yielding to Its
decision, you are blessed. And you are brought back. This one who seems
to have been experiencing an independent existence on its own, it finds
its true experience of Selfhood, of Being, infilling you.

So we’re talking about having a new fixation. Not a fixation on
yourself. Not a fixation on your visions and your imaginations, but a
fixation on God. And how have I suggested having a fixation on God? By
looking for God in everything you see and desiring to see What God Is
Meaning right there, as I’ve said, in the flower, in your Brothers’ and
Sisters’ eyes. And then facilitate that movement by disengaging from the
use of criticism and guilt. At least facilitate it by not engaging in
that any longer.

So have two weeks for sure of embodying gratitude. Say “Thank you” for
the flowers because of what they must be even if you’re not seeing it.
Say “Thank you” for what they hold for you. And let there be a curiosity
at the same time and even if you don’t see it yet, say “Thank you.” Say
“Thank you” for your family, and say “Thank you” for everything that’s
in your face, because What Each Thing Divinely Is stands there as a
learning device for you, a means of remembering what’s true. And whether
you see it or not depends upon what you’re fixed on. That’s all. And you
know what? You’ll all get the hang of it. You’ll all get the hang of it.

I love you. And I’ll be with you two weeks from now.

Chapter 5 – Section:  THE ETERNAL FIXATION (Raj is now reading from the
Sparkly Book—there can be a lot of difference in the readings.) 2
Sparkly Book – p.112   /   JCIM – p.48  /   CIMS – p.96 Chapter 5 –
Section:  THE DECISION FOR GOD First Edition  –  p. 81  /    Second
Edition – p 88 1 Students – commenting or asking a question.
