---
title: "Way of Transformation - Lesson Nine"
next: /wom/wot/l10/
prev: /wom/wot/l08/
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
- Question Three
- Question Four
---

<p class="tr_break"> Now, we begin. </p>

It is not possible for you to be without Love.

It is not possible for you to be alone.

It is not possible for you to taste death.

It is not possible for you to taste genuine loss.

It is not possible for you to suffer the dream of separation.

It is not possible for you to be apart from your Creator.

It is not possible for you to fail.

It is not possible for you to harm anyone or anything.

It is not possible for you to be guilty of sin.

Beloved friends, as we abide together in this hour, please consider each
of the statements that has just been made to you. We suggest to you that
you pause the tape and write down each of them individually at the head
of a piece of paper. Then once this session is ended, begin a process in
which for one week you will abide with each of the statements just made.
And what do we mean by that? We mean that as often as you choose,
through desire, to set aside time to do so, merely abide with the
statement. And then watch what comes up in the mind, and write it down.

What you will discover are many pictures, many ideas, even certain
feelings that seem to indicate to you that the statement must not
*entirely* be true. This is a way, then, for you to deepen your ability to
observe what is actually occurring within the field of your own mind. It
is a way to enter into a *deliberate purification*.

Denial can never purify the mind. For you cannot transcend what you
refuse to embrace. For in embracing does Love return to the place where
shadow once dwelt. And Love alone heals all things. The innocent need
not fear. Therefore, because you are innocent, as you sit with this
process, you are *completely free* to be *thoroughly honest* about what
comes up into the mind as you sit with each statement.

Just jot it down. And after a two or three minute period, pause, look at
what you’ve come up with, or what’s come up within you, and then
juxtapose those two views. Take the statement that you’re working with
and simply repeat it in the mind. And then look at the statement, the
picture, the description, the memory that *seems* to indicate that your
experience is *other* than that statement.

And as you juxtapose it in this way, look at what has come up within
your mind--be *honest* about it--and then say...for instance, if it
is an event that occurred last week, or last year, or ten years ago, or
five hundred years ago (it doesn’t really matter) as you look at it,
simply ask:

> Has this belief or this perception of myself, that seems to be in
> opposition to the statement on the top of the page, has it really
> changed anything about me? Has it taken my existence from me?

And simply see what the answer is. Then lift your eyes from the page and
look around. And say within the mind,

> I am free in this moment to choose to see things differently.

Then take just a moment or two and abide--simply looking around you.
Then go back to the statement at the top of the page and say it again
out loud, at least three times. And then merely say within the mind,
quietly,

> This is the Truth about me. And I want only the Truth.

And then, put it away, be about your business. At some other point,
bring it out. And do that kind of process for one week for each of the
statements given you. And rest assured, *purification* will be occurring
in the depth of the mind. Each of you will experience it in your own
way. But you will experience it. Remember always, then, that the only
thing that can be transformed is the mind. And it is by the power of the
mind itself that purification occurs.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Just as desire is essential to realization, so too is *willingness*, or
*allowance*. And you have heard us say unto you many times that you are
required only to offer a little willingness, just what you call in your
world--what is this word--a “smidgen.” Measure out a smidgen of
willingness, which is the same as allowance, and sprinkle it upon your
experiences. Sprinkle it across the world. Sprinkle it upon your own
being.

Become willing to be one who cultivates the ability to *allow all things*.
For the mind that is free can do this. The mind that is imprisoned
cannot. For the mind that is imprisoned is so because it insists that
what it perceives should become different *in itself*, but that the
perceiver need not change. And that is the very essence of imprisonment.

One who cultivates that ability to *allow*, then, is cultivating, in
Truth, the very act of forgiveness. It is releasing the world from its
*insistence* that its perceptions be held as right. It is releasing from
*itself* the need to *hold on* to its perceptions. Therefore, allow all
things. Trust all the things. And thereby, embrace and transcend all
things.

*Allowance* follows on the heels of desire. For when you desire the
Kingdom above all things, you have no choice but to discover that you
must allow the world to be as the world is. For you have not known how
the world is--you have only known your perceptions of it. But the
Comforter will heal those perceptions. And that requires your little
willingness to let your perceptions be changed. And as they are changed,
the world magically becomes a different place. It does become
transparent and harmless. It becomes virtually *valueless*, except for the
value that the Comforter would give it, while it lasts.

Allowance, beloved friends, is a process of letting go, is a process of
trusting. It is a process of saying,

> You know, I wonder what it would be like to just let things be as they
> are--to notice them and let them pass by?

Allowance is the *doorway* through which Christ passes into the complete
remembrance of Christ. Allowance brings a deepening sense of freedom--freedom
from all circumstance. For it is your circumstances that you
have *believed* have the power to imprison you. But as you choose to
relinquish your perception of the world, or any circumstance, you
discover that you are already abiding in freedom. The *power*, and that is
what freedom is, it is a *power* to create differently. And to create is
the effect of what you will choose to see.

Allowance, then, can be thought of as a resistance being melted from the
nervous system, if you will, which is just an aspect of the mind,
anyway. Allowance is like the opening of the palms of the hands. Instead
of holding on so tightly, you simply let go.

What do you let go of? The habit of the need to be right. The habit of
the need to perceive that the world is a fearful place. The habit of
perceiving that you are in lack. The habit of perceiving that Christ
must be far from you. Anything that is unlike the Kingdom of Heaven is a
habit well worth releasing by *allowing* it to be dissolved from your
mind.

<!-- Track t3 -->

The essence, then, of this hour’s communication with you is about the
cultivation of allowance. It begins already, and will deepen a great
deal, if you’ll merely put the exercise that we began with into
practice. The willingness to *relinquish the lid* you have placed upon
your own mind, so that you become able, in innocence, to simply observe
how it really is--what’s really going on down in the basement, without
judgment, without fear, without justification, without explanation. It
is simply there.

In allowance, you cultivate the very quality of forgiveness. And without
forgiveness, it is *impossible* to awaken into the realization of the
Truth that is true always. And why? Because judgment is the opposite of
the Kingdom. And where forgiveness is withheld, you are literally making
a choice to be outside the Kingdom. You have used the power of the mind
to make a decision, out of a desire to hold onto a perception, and
thereby, you have generated direct experience. And *you* are the one who
has kicked yourself out of the garden.

Remember, then, that always, forgiveness is *essential*. It is *necessary*
for the Atonement. Forgiveness is another word for allowance. We speak
here not of a blind passivity, but of a relinquishment within one’s own
mind, and that is all. It is a *willingness* to see the complete
neutrality of all events. It is a *willingness* to let the Comforter
remind you that separation does not exist, that you cannot possibly make
yourself guilty of sin and all the rest.

Forgiveness is a *relinquishment* of what you have decided is true about
the world. It is, then, very much a self-centered practice. Of yourself,
you cannot forgive your brother or sister for anything, because, in
reality, they’ve done nothing. Forgiveness is forgiveness of one’s self
for insisting on replacing Reality with your own version of it.

Allowance, beloved friends, is like the petals of a flower, opening to
embrace the new dawn of a spring day. Allowance is like the melting of
the ice that allows the river to flow. Allowance is like the removing of
a cap from a bottle of sweet fragrance and enjoying it as deeply as you
can. **Allowance is the dissolution of fear.* Allowance is transformation.*

And when you have come to allow all things, to trust all things, you
will have embraced all things. And only that one who is *larger* than the
thing which is embraced can do the embracing. Therefore, whenever you
feel imprisoned, it is because you have made yourself *smaller* than the
world you perceive.

And when you feel free, it is because you’ve remembered that you are the
one from which all things have arisen. *You are* the Son of God. You are
the vast sky in which all clouds and storms arise and pass away, while
the sky remains unscathed--eternally changeless. *That* is freedom! And
the cultivation of freedom is a free-will choice. It is the result of
the *desire* for the Kingdom.

<!-- Track t4 -->

As you come *truly* to forgive yourself for every perception you have ever
held about anyone or anything, you will come to discover that it means
relinquishing perceptions of yourself, as well. For you cannot awaken
fully unless you include *yourself* in the circle of your forgiveness. And
ultimately, of course, you come to see that the very practice of
allowance is *really* the act of *allowing yourself to be truly the Self
that you are*. You will no longer resist the process of purification, by
whatever means the Comforter uses for you. It simply doesn’t matter any
more:

> Why resist it? All I want is God!

And if it is dissolved in the mind in a split second, and you don’t even
notice it--fine. And if it requires great tears and great experiences
in the world--fine. What’s the difference? They’re really the same. It
is because you have relinquished--through allowing--you’ve
relinquished ownership of your own pathway home. And you have decided to
let the Comforter *take* you home. Because you desire the Kingdom above
all else, it no longer matters how that process is experienced. You no
longer complain that it seems to be taking too long. You simply enjoin
yourself in the process itself. You let the Comforter take you by the
hand and retrace the steps you once made in error. And each step
requires allowance, which is forgiveness born of desire that has been
purified of desire for that which imprisons. And it is replaced with the
desire for that which sets all things free.

Once your desire begins and becomes the Kingdom, the end of the journey
is perfectly certain. School is out. That which the ego is cannot last.
For the very universe, Creation, the world around you, will *conspire* —
which simply means to *breathe together*--all things will conspire
together under the hand of the Holy Spirit to create *precisely* what *you*
require to be set completely free of all illusion. And secretly, you
will have already agreed with the Comforter that it will be this way.

Allowance, then, is equally as important as desire, and is an aspect of
that pathway, that foundation, whereby Christ remembers Christ and
arises from the ego’s ashes to walk upon this plane, and any plane, as
the Truth that is true always.

<!-- Track t5 -->

Remember that it is only the ego that will compare and contrast. It is
only the egoic mind that thinks about another’s path and wonders if
perhaps their path is better than its own path, than your path. There is
*only* the life that you are directly experiencing. And through desire and
allowance, that very life comes to be embraced as the *very means* by
which the Comforter is dissolving illusion from your mind. And of
course, it’s all based on the humility of realizing that the ego cannot
awaken itself; that the Comforter is that agency, given by Grace, that
knows how to bring you home.

I highly recommend that you establish a relationship with the Comforter
as though it were a relationship with a good friend--indeed, the *best*
of friends--until you reach a point in which virtually every decision
is given to that Mind:

> Well, old buddy, should I turn left or right?

And you *relinquish* ownership of your life. It is only the ego that
thinks it can possess life. Spirit knows that Life possesses it. That
is, Life has birthed you; the Mind of God has given rise to you. You are
God’s. You are not the *owner* of Life. You are the *recipient* of it.

Would you then be willing, in this month’s time, to make the decision to
become a *grand master of allowance*? You can begin again with the
simplest of things:

> I allow this toothpaste to taste exactly the way it tastes, with no
> complaint. It just is as it is.

If it is the changing of your seasons, would you be willing not to
lament the end of your summer and the coming of your fall, but would you
be willing to experience that change? For rest assured, and please
listen well, in the realm of the world, which is the realm of
perception, the *only* thing that exists is *constant change*. Underneath it
there is a changeless Reality, that which pervades the changeable. But
where there is resistance to change, rest assured, there is a mind
living in delusion.

Remember that we have said unto you before that the Awakened Mind no
longer feels any resistance to the things of time. It no longer tries to
get rid of time. It no longer tries to make things stay the same. The
Awakened Mind can embrace all things, trust all things, and thereby,
transcends all things *instantly*, even in the midst of change.

In your realm--be perfectly honest with yourself--is there ever a
moment in which change is not occurring? Can the body be the field of
perfect silence? Hardly. Even if you make your heart stop beating for
three seconds, there is still blood gently flowing through the veins.
There are still thoughts arising, sounds coming in through the ears. The
body is not that which can be changeless. The *awareness* of the body, the
field in which the body arises, is changeless already.

Can you come, then, to be the *field of awareness* that can embrace all
things which arise, change, and pass away, yet not feel any *obstruction*
in embracing and dancing with those things? For the mind that is free
from the illusions of death is that very mind that learns to *dance* with
death, to enter into any moment or relationship, knowing that because
the body is engaged, it must come to an end. In fact, it’s already on
its way to death.

The mind that becomes the one who is no longer in fear, no longer in
resistance, is the mind that has forgiven all things, including itself.
The mind, then, that can embrace all phenomena that arise and pass away
with passion, with joy, with aliveness, with innocence, with simplicity
— *that* mind cannot taste death. It literally transmutes death, even as
death seems to be passing by.

The highest state of being, then, is always a paradox when you try to
think about it. Through your *desire* you have come ever closer and ever
deeper into the Kingdom. And through your cultivation of *allowance*, the
Grace-filled willingness to know that that which arises is already
passing away--it is like water flowing through a fork, and you might as
well not lament it. The mind that laments it is the mind imprisoned in
delusion. The mind that *allows* all things is the mind that is already
freely *beyond* all things.

<!-- Track t6 -->

In this month, then, imagine that there has been given unto you a
window, as though your Creator had plucked you out of Himself and said,

> I’m going to drop you into the field of time because there’s something I
> want you to learn. You now have thirty days in which to learn it.

Imagine that if you didn’t learn it, your existence would be snuffed
out, what they call erasing your name from the Book of Life. Now of
course, that will never happen. This is just a way of getting leverage
on yourself.

Imagine that for the next thirty days all that mattered was the
*cultivation of the grace of allowing*. How to do that? By coming down,
once again, to the most concrete, most mundane, most ordinary
experiences of any given day. When you turn your water on in your shower
in the morning, to actually take the time to be present, and to feel its
coolness change to heat and to recognize that you have just observed the
constant dance of change in your world. And to say simply,

> I allow this change to occur.

Now, yes, it makes you sound that you’re some great being, when in fact
it’s going to happen anyway. But have fun with it!

And if you burn your toast, take a deep breath. And before the egoic
mind begins to complain and whine that its toast isn’t the way it wants
it, stop and look at it. Actually experience the burnt toast and say,

> I <span class="tr_normal">allow</span> this toast to be burnt. And now, I’m free to choose to eat it as
> it is, or to begin anew.

If you get into your automobile, and you pull out of your garage, and
the raindrops are hitting the windshield, simply give yourself
permission to bring your mind back from the future into the present and
say,

> I allow the falling of the rain.

That simple.

So, you see, the power of transformation of consciousness...which,
by the way, is the only thing that can be transformed. Learning is a
consciousness thing. It’s the only thing that *can* be changed. It’s the
only place learning can occur. And all learning is designed to *translate
perception*, so that it becomes more and more and more and more like
Reality, itself. Fear dissolves from the mind. And then the Father can
take the final step for you.

Learning *is* necessary in the field of perception. And *you* have placed
*yourself* within that field. So, why not get on with it, and *let*
perception be healed? It is healed by bringing the *power of observation*
to what is right in front of you--not in front of the body, but right
in the field of awareness, itself. And that is why you should be dancing
in your shoes at all times:

> My goodness, I don’t have to go anywhere. It’s right here in front of
> me. This ordinary moment provides the doorway to the transformation of
> consciousness itself. All I have to do is bring a little willingness to
> it. And guess what? I have all power under Heaven and Earth to do just
> that! Nobody can take it from me! Nobody can change the freedom in which
> I live! I am the one who can bring that little willingness to this
> moment and let the raindrops hit the window.

If you will look around yourself, you will discover, in any given day,
plenty of things to keep you occupied, plenty of reasons why boredom is
nothing more than a decision. For right in front of you is the richness
of a pathway, translated by the Comforter, from a dream of separation to
the royal highway to the Kingdom. And all power under Heaven and Earth
lies within you--in *this* moment, and *this* moment, and *this* moment--to
choose again. But it’s time to take such statements out of the realm of
abstract intellection into very concrete, if you will, *lived moments*:

> Where can I choose again? Right now! I can accept and allow these
> raindrops to hit the window. I can be present with them. I can hear
> them. I can watch them as they trickle down, instead of being annoyed,
> instead of letting the mind go off into its future adventures. I can
> cultivate the art of being present now as the very presence of a mind
> that is free.

Therefore, consider, in your days, in each of your next thirty days,

> What could I utilize in this day to practice this exercise?

Now, of course, that’s a bit of an odd question to ask, since you can’t
be *without* things to put that practice into, practice with. It’s
impossible. Those that say they are bored are really saying,

> I am resisting the Kingdom.

Pure and simple.

<!-- Track t7 -->

Well do we perceive, once again, that so many in your world seek to find
a spirituality that will free them of the world of their experience,
never even realizing that *that very attitude* is the thing that chains
them, imprisons them in their hell. Spirituality is merely a process of
seeing things differently. And that is an *active decision*--born of
desire, coupled with the little willingness called *allowance*--the
decision to recognize that each moment is like a jewel presented on a
golden plate to *you*, God’s Child. You are the one who has the freedom
always and literally creates, or makes, your experience.

The final lesson that I had in time, concerning allowance, was the
*crucifixion*. Now, I know that there are many of you that don’t want to
follow in my footsteps. But rest assured, beloved friends, if you would
look well upon your experience, you’ve already tasted much more profound
crucifixions *many, many* times. In fact, for some of you, my crucifixion
was a *cake walk*, by comparison. You are free to crucify yourself no
longer, by choosing to *transform* your very experience, by bringing the
power of your mind to bear upon it.

Desire. Allowance.

So what, then, stands between you and the goal that you would seek? The
*decision* to try to be *insane*. The *decision* to try to *resist God*. Now,
you know that you can resist another body, since another body occupies
another piece of space. In other words, it’s not where you are, so you
can resist it. But I say unto you, *God is already wholly present right
where you are*. *How on earth can you resist what is already occupying the
space in which you find yourself?* You might as well try to shake off
your own hand, or shake and jiggle the skin off the body. Good luck!

All suffering is the resistance of Reality. All awakening and healing is
the letting go of resistance. Forgiveness, allowance:

> God is already here. And I am forever God’s. I surrender.

Surrender is the fruit of allowance. Surrender is the fruit of
forgiveness. *Surrender is the same as the Atonement.*

But for now, simply focus on *allowance*, to make sure that you haven’t
left some dark corner in the mind filled with your need to perceive
things in a certain way, your need to believe that the world should be
other than the way it is, your forgetfulness that each event that
transpires in your experience can be seen as Heaven or hell. As you
choose to see only *Heaven*, you will discover the *power* that has already
set you free.

<!-- Track t8 -->

The message of this hour is a short one, but it is quite long on value,
if you will put it into practice. And after all, what else could you
possibly want to use time for? You’ve tried everything else and found it
lacking. You haven’t been able to fill it up with enough lovers, enough
money, enough cars, enough restaurants. Hmm...So you might as well
fill it up with the *transformation of consciousness*, so that perception
begins to be more and more and more and more aligned with the real
world. Why not? And if somebody asks you what you do with your time,
say,

> I grow Christ. What do you do?

So practice well! Begin with the statements given to you when we began.
They’re very, very important for you as a way of *triggering* the
opportunity to observe what might be *unlike* the Truth still lingering in
the mind. Some would say in the emotional field, which is really just
the space of “glue” in which you attach perceptions, like pinning the
tail to the donkey:

> Stick that one on the wall and keep it forever!

Hmm! Let those things bubble up that they might be purified from your
Holy Mind.

And above all, beloved friends, remember: *there are no mistakes*! You are
free to trust the momentum that seems to be shaping your life. For you
are the one who has complied with it by inviting the Holy Spirit to take
you home. You are the one that has prayed for acceleration. Therefore,
also be the one who accepts the Grace being offered unto you. Remember
that resistance is the ego; embracing is of Christ. And the one that
allows all things has already transcended all things.

Therefore, indeed, be at peace in this short hour. And let this hour
become a month-long journey of exploration.

Be you, therefore, at peace this day.

Amen.

---

## Question One

*Question One*: How do you know if you are truly being guided?

*Answer*: Indeed, beloved friend, this is a question of great importance,
though think not that *importance* requires *seriousness*. Therefore,
understand that as you seek to separate yourself from the roar and the
din of the world, from the world mind, from the opinions of those around
you, and seek to shift the momentum of the mind back toward the heart,
toward the Kingdom of Heaven within you, toward that silence in which
the Voice of the Comforter speaks, know well that the very first step is
to *begin at the end*. By this we mean *always*--and never, ever fail to do
this--*always* begin any such period of meditation or prayer by
acknowledging the Truth that is true always, that transcends the
shadows, the illusions, the misperceptions of the world. And that Truth
is simply this: You cannot be less than what God has created you to be.
Separation from God does not exist. And if you find that you exist in
this moment, it can only be because you are, indeed, one with that
Creative Source that has birthed you in It’s own image and has given you
access to all wisdom and all Truth and all support. For you are, indeed,
loved above all things.

Therefore, begin always by acknowledging that this is the Truth. Then,
allow the body to relax. And as it does so, look with the inner eye, the
mind’s eye, at the situation, the context that seems to be presenting
itself to you--whether it be of relationship, career, what have you.
Simply, then, look with the mind’s eye upon the context and say,

> This context has no power to harm me. It comes because I have called it
> in my own desire to grow in wisdom, to grow in strength and power and
> certainty.

Then, remind yourself that only the Comforter’s guidance, the inner
Voice of the Holy Spirit, can think *rightly* for you. Ask of That One,

> My Friend, what is this context for? What lesson do I need to learn?
> What decision truly will carry me in the direction of my deepest
> commitment?

And I emphasize the word *commitment* here, for as you well know, and we
have spoken many times, that until the mind, until the soul, until the
heart becomes fully committed to awakening from every last trace of
illusion, until it becomes fully committed to bringing forth the gifts
that have been placed within it by God, life is like a ship without a
rudder. Therefore, ask what that decision is that *truly serves* the
commitment that you have made to awakening to the Mind of Christ, to
being the embodiment of wisdom and of Love and of peace.

Now having done that, remember that--at least in the initial stages of
the journey--the egoic mind will always speak first. In other words,
you have *learned* to look to the *world’s thinking* to find the solutions
to the contexts, or what you call problems that present themselves.
There is a period of *retraining* the mind in which you become more and
more detached from the thinking patterns of the world. But when you
begin to enter silence in this way, and ask,

> What decision truly serves my highest good, my deepest commitment?

the first voice that you will usually hear is that little voice that
says,

> Oh, no. Don’t do that. No, no. Don’t do this. This will not leave you
> safe. And what about this person? And what about that person? And what
> about all of those things?

If you are observant, you will notice that when that voice speaks, it
creates a restlessness within the body-mind itself, like an ocean
churned by an angry wind, so that the waves toss to and fro. The breath
changes. The shoulders tighten. There is a restlessness, and it seems as
though it is difficult to maintain comfort and ease. The *egoic* voice,
which is the voice of fear, the voice of guilt, the voice of
self-judgment, the voice of unworthiness to be what God has created you
to be, that voice always creates inner turmoil and loss of peace.
Therefore, merely observe it. Do not seek to be rid of it, but just
learn to observe it as it is.

> Oh, I’ve asked the question within and asked for guidance, and
> immediately my mind became disturbed, my body’s changed and tightened,
> and I’m thinking about all manner of things that are ‘out there.’ This,
> surely, is not the Voice of the Comforter. Therefore, I will simply ask
> again.

Simply return to the acknowledgment of who you are and ask again, as
we’ve suggested. Begin to observe, then, as the body begins to relax,
that you need only say within the mind,

> In Truth, I do not know what a single thing is or is for. I am here to
> learn what it means to be awake, to be the <span class="tr_normal">embodiment of Love</span>. 
> And there is one Teacher given unto me who guides always correctly.

Merely then, ask your questions again. And notice the effect. Say within
the mind,

> I am not attached to the answer, for I trust Love to direct my course.

When you begin to observe that the mind, your beingness, is less and
less attached to the outcome that you’re looking for, then the Voice of
the Comforter can begin to speak to you. You’ve heard it often said that
God speaks to you as a small, still, quiet Voice. This is the opposite
of the world’s thinking. Therefore, as you cultivate the ability to rest
in silence, to be detached from any need to have the answer look a
certain way, more and more you will access that place in the depth of
the mind, or the heart, in which the Comforter dwells at One with you.

Remember that the Holy Spirit is merely *right-mindedness*.
Right-mindedness, correct seeing, correct feeling, is that that is
aligned with the Will of God. That right-mindedness was placed within
you by God Herself, if you will. So you are truly listening only to the
*depth* of *your own being*, what we have referred to often as the *heart*, as
a way of drawing a distinction from the thinking, restless mind.

It is in silence that the Voice of the Comforter speaks. And silence
comes when you are no longer invested in the outcome of the contexts or
decisions that confront you. You will know that you are truly guided
when a picture, a thought, even a voice, a feeling in the heart, comes
and your whole being resonates with it. Therefore, there is no conflict.
There’s no tug of war any longer. There’s a moment of simple
knowingness. It is not the kind of thing that needs to be explained to
anyone. It is not the kind of thing that you question or mull over in
your mind. It is a simple, immediate knowing.

> This is the right decision.
> 
> This is the journey I must make.
> 
> This is the book I must read.
> 
> This is the relationship I’m to be in, or not to be in (it doesn’t
> matter).

The point is, you *feel* in your beingness a clarity, a resonance, that
indicates you have stepped into a state of *wholeness*. You *know* what you
*know*, and there is only certainty.

Then, of course, the next step is to *follow through*. The voice of the
ego will rise again a thousand times, debating with you. And why?
Because the voice of the ego, again, is that voice made up by you as a
result of your guilt and fear and your belief that you are *unworthy* to
be One with God, that your innocence has been tainted, that, therefore,
the Creator has forgotten you. This is never the case. You are loved
wholly. You have never sinned. And you remain as you are created to be.
And your Creator merely waits for you to awaken from the dream of
unworthiness and to take up your rightful place as His creation, that
the *good*, the *holy*, and the *beautiful* can be extended through you in the
very act of creation.

Beloved friend, guidance is something that is *learned* in the field of
time. It occurs to the degree that you are willing to stop thinking for
yourself. It comes to the degree that you are willing to set aside the
guidance of everyone around you--and if you open yourself to that,
you’ll find there are many just waiting to tell you what you should do.
It comes as the result of your willingness to begin to turn every
decision over to the Friend, the Teacher, the Comforter, that has been
placed in the depth of your mind and your heart by God. And God is but
Love.

Therefore, to cultivate tuning into, resonating with, listening, and
then following that Voice in the depth of your heart means that you are
learning to let *Love* be your guide, *Love* be your teacher, *Love* be your
friend. And that Love is universal. That Love is eternal. And that Love
is within you *now*! You cannot be alone at any time. And all power under
Heaven and Earth is given unto you to guide and shape your journey
through time. And over time, you will become a master of tuning into
guidance.

Making the direction toward the Kingdom of Heaven, you will learn to go
only to that altar and not to the altar of the world. And as miracles
occur, as success builds upon success, you will learn that after all is
said and done, the world has been wrong. You are not alone. You do not
need to make your way. Your way will be made *for you* by a Power and Love
and Intelligence that birthed you in the first place and has only your
highest good in mind.

Practice well then, beloved friend. Look to see how you can begin to
turn decisions over. Begin with those that are quite simple, so that
fear does not arise. Begin, for instance, by simply asking,

> What would be the best thing I could put in my body for breakfast?
> 
> Which of these two movies would I most enjoy?

And then, practice listening for the inner guidance. Again, in this way,
you begin with situations that are fairly ‘safe’ for you. And then you
can progress to ‘bigger’ decisions, until, ultimately, every decision is
turned over--even the most ordinary decisions. Not in a way that
anybody will see or notice, but your mind has been corrected, so that in
each moment, you’re quietly asking,

> Father/Mother God, what would you have me do? For only your plan works,
> and only your pathway is strewn with the flowers of miracles, and
> wisdom, and peace, and the fulfillment of my soul.

Begin practicing, beloved friend, making the decision to turn every
decision over to the quiet place within where the Friend, the Teacher,
waits for you.

---

## <span class="tr_hide">Question Two</span> {#l01q2}

*Question Two*: Jeshua, you have mentioned that all events are neutral —
several times. Could you please take that and go deeper with that and
explain it for us?

*Answer*: Beloved friend, I would be most pleased to do this for you,
except that your question is a neutral event that has no interest!
[Laughter] Hmm.

Now you have, indeed, heard it said to you many times, and I’m certainly
not the first one to share this, that *all events are neutral*. What do we
mean by this?

There is a moment, unknown by the world’s thinking. It goes unperceived,
unnoticed by those who live their lives *seduced* by the shadows that make
up the world, because they are run by fear, by judgment, by doubt, by
guilt. This is like a turbulence in the mind that covers up the
simplicity of the moment we’re referring to. There is a *moment* in each
and every one of your experiences where an event begins to arise, a gap
if you would say so, in which your mind is not *interpreting* the event.
It is merely *arising*. This is its reality, its “suchness,” if you will.
It simply arises. You don’t know where it came from. It arises from
Mystery. For in Truth, no one--*no one*--can say why there is anything
at all. It arises from Mystery--energy dancing in an endless shape of
forms, beginning, passing by, and then ending.

The world in which you live, this world of energy called your physical
dimension, is like a constant *light show*--energy dancing, cascading,
changing. There is a moment of perfect peace, a moment that can be
cultivated to be expanded, so that your mind notices the *innocence* of
each event. But the *perception of innocence requires the healing of
fear*.

I’ve shared with you many times that there are fundamentally only two
emotions, if you will, only two worlds, or two realities: Love and fear.
And between these two, only one is Real: Love. For God is Love and does
not create unlike Herself. Fear, then, must be healed within the mind
and the body, as long as the body lasts, in order that the mind can
perceive this *moment of innocence*...watching a wave arise out of the
Ocean of Mystery without a need to judge it, without a need to hold up a
placard and say,

> We’ll give it a five or a nine.
> 
> No, that’s a bad wave.
> 
> This is a good wave.
> 
> What will this wave do to me?
> 
> Oh, I don’t want this wave!

You know all of that kind of thinking.

There is a moment in which the *perfect innocence* of each event is
*undisturbed*.

What, then, occurs to change a *neutral* event into one *charged* with
meaning? Listen well, beloved friend, for here is the whole crux of the
very problem, if you will, which requires you to awaken from it.

*Perception* takes place. Perception is like a *coloring*. Imagine that you
had a pair of sunglasses, and as you walked outside, you had them in
your hand, not on your eyes. And for a moment, you saw things just as
they are. And then, in the next moment, you’re putting the blue-colored
lenses over your eyes. Immediately, the world, that which you are
experiencing, has been colored in a certain way.

Perception is much like this. The only difference being that the lenses
are *deep within your mind*. The lenses are made up of all of the beliefs
and perceptions and attitudes that you have taken on from others around
you as you sought to adapt yourself to this world. It creates beliefs.
And you will literally believe that what you see is ‘out there’--when,
in fact, you’re merely looking through the lens, the prism, the lenses
of your own mind. This is why I have often said there is nothing outside
of you.

Therefore, when you experience any event, notice your responses. And
then, if you truly desire peace, stop trying to *justify* your
perceptions. And rather, go within and ask with the innocent wonder of a
child,

> I wonder why I’m choosing to see this event this way? I wonder if I
> could see it differently? Perhaps what looks like a trauma is offering
> me a treasure, if only I could become quiet and ask the Comforter for
> guidance.

The reality of your ‘world’ is this--listen carefully: *It does not
exist*. That is, it is not occurring outside of your own mind. Mind is
all there is. And freedom comes from the willingness to take
responsibility for it, that the Mystery which brings forth all events
can be seen the way you *want* to see it--from freedom, from power, from
safety, from peace, *from Love rather than fear*.

Because you are made by your Creator to create, you are creating without
ceasing. And until awakening comes (and that’s another subject) you
literally are creating the world of your experience through the lenses
of your own perceptions. You are free at any time to heal those
perceptions and to learn to see differently--eventually to see through
the Eyes of Christ. And Christ is just the reflection of the Love that
God is.

Regardless of what the egoic part of the mind will say, this one thing
never changes: *All events remain perfectly neutral*. What value and
meaning, then, can they have? They will have the meaning and value that
emerges from your decision about which *voice* to listen to--the voice of
the ego, which is the voice of fear and judgment and unworthiness, or
the Voice of Love, in which the Comforter translates the events of time
and shows you how they can be utilized for your own awakening and
healing; and, by extension, the awakening and healing of the world,
itself. This is a Voice that the Christ within you listens to. It is the
Voice that speaks of forgiveness, the Voice that speaks of fearlessness,
the Voice that speaks of wisdom, and of patience. It is the Voice that
serves only one purpose--that purpose which can bring each of God’s
Children Home again, to uplift them to the peace that they seek, out of
the suffering of guilt that they’ve been used to.

One who is fully awake, in the field of time, looks to be very ordinary.
But in their mind, their consciousness, they’ve been given over to
letting the Holy Spirit interpret every series of events *for* them. And
the Holy Spirit will interpret events *only* in the way that serves the
awakening process. Events no longer have any other purpose than the
correction, deep in the mind, that allows Love to be remembered and
restored, so that Creation can flow without obstacle.

You will know that you are listening to the voice of the ego when you
*argue for the correctness of your perception*. Learn well, then, beloved
friend, again by practicing innocently, to recognize that all events are
neutral. You can do this in a way that I’ve explained many times through
many channels. Merely give yourself five minutes a day in which you sit
in a chair and observe the things around you. And each time your eyes
fall upon an object or perhaps hear the phone ring, or what have you,
you merely say,

> I do not know what this is or is for. I don’t even know how it got here.
> I rest in innocence, and place no judgment upon it.

In this way, you begin to cultivate the mind to let the gap widen, in
which, within your mind, the *moment of innocence* lingers long enough for
you to be aware of it. Eventually, you could literally be *crucified* by
beings who swear they hate you, and you would look upon it with
equanimity and peace, saying simply,

> Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. This is simply a
> neutral event. And I remain One with God.

Practice well, beloved friend, and look. You’ll begin to discover what
you are still valuing, where you’re still holding on to your need to be
right about your perceptions. And merely invite the Comforter to change
your mind for you.

That should be sufficient for now.

---

## <span class="tr_hide">Question Three</span> {#l01q3}

*Question Three*: Please explain more about the paradox of living as one Christ
Consciousness and yet also living in an individuated body and ego.

*Answer*: Beloved friend, please listen well as we give you the punch
line. In Christed Awareness, it is *impossible* to live as an individuated
mind or ego, since Christed Awareness is becoming established in the
*transcendence* of the old misperception that you are living inside a body
and peering out through it and are, therefore, separated from others
because of the distance between bodies. In Christed Awareness, you
literally feel and know your identity to be *Spirit*. And Spirit embraces
all things. You literally recognize that there is nothing outside of
you.

Yes, it is quite true that the body-mind you once used to be identified
with is still going on. But it has been *translated*. It has been
*transformed* because your perception of it has been corrected. You
realize that your ability to be aware is the very gift of God that
created you in the first place. That power to be aware is the power of
Spirit Itself. Therefore, it is no longer ‘my’ body-mind, ‘my’ egoic
mind, it is just ‘the’ body, ‘the’ mind. And it is given over with every
breath, with every thought, to Spirit.

So, that’s the punch line. As you ask the question, it is impossible.
You cannot live as Christed Mind and still be an individuated body and
ego.

The highest state of consciousness, then, is a state in which perception
has been corrected. And the body-mind walks upon the planet as long as
it lasts, but now, instead of being you, it is a simple tool for Spirit.
You’re no longer identified *as* it, or *with* it. You look at your hands
and your feet, you look at the head, you look at the thoughts that come
and go, and you realize that the body-mind could never possibly have any
purpose or value except that which God gives it. And you have
surrendered ownership. You said,

> Father, it’s pretty evident that I haven’t known how to live happily,
> joyfully, and at peace. I give myself--I give all of this--back to
> You. You use it. And I’ll go where You want me to go. I’ll take the
> carcass, the body, wherever You want it to go. It no longer matters to
> me. I am here only to be at peace and to offer this body-mind as a
> possible way through which Love can be revealed to another, through
> which wisdom can be given to the world. I’m not even attached to that;
> all things are yours.

Therefore, beloved friend, as you go through your day, begin to notice
how you are thinking about the body itself. How many times do you say
‘my’ body, ‘my’ ego, ‘my’ thoughts? Begin to create some distance by
simply saying ‘the’ body, ‘the’ egoic mind (which is really not the
possession of anybody; it’s just a temporary quality of mind that many
beings seem to be sharing), ‘the’ thoughts. If you were sitting next to
your ocean, and you were watching waves arise and fall, would you say,

> That wave is mine and nobody else’s?

Of course not. You would say,

> Oh, there goes a wave.

Can you teach yourself, during the course of your day, to do the same
thing?

> Oh, the body is washing dishes.
> 
> The body is walking upon the grass.
> 
> Oh, there are thoughts passing through the mind.

Can you become the *Witness*, or the observer, of what is arising and
passing away? For the more that you develop the quality of the Witness,
the more the world becomes transparent, and the more you realize that
you are the Watcher of all thoughts. You are the Seer of all things. You
are Spirit. You are like the ocean in which waves arise and pass away.
And you begin to become identified--not as the body, not as the
particular personality or history--you’ll become identified as that
which embraces and trusts and allows all things. You will be Spirit. And
*then* you will know the answer to your question, for it cannot be
answered with the intellect. It can only be *known* and lived directly.

That should give this one pause.

---

## Question Four

*Question Four*: Can you talk about what the perception of the New Age movement
is regarding ‘up and out,’ riding the ascending current and ignoring
what we call the ‘shadow side,’ and how to balance the...not to be
in denial of the shadow? Can you just discuss that--riding the
ascending and descending currents (in less than ten minutes)?

*Answer*: Beloved friend, this would be a very good question to devote an
entire hour to, or perhaps several hours. And yet, I will give the
answer to you in two minutes. The only question will be, will you be
able to *realize* that Truth in the seven or eight that are then left to
you? [Laughter]

Here is the answer: *The Seeker must become the Finder.* The desire to
ride the ascending current is a subtle aspect of *seeking experience*. The
heart that is awake embraces *all* things, trusts all things, denies
nothing. And if you are in this world, what you call the ‘shadow’ can be
loved as easily as any ascending mystical experience. The desire to ride
that current is nothing more than the desire to avoid something. If you
know that you are Spirit, there is nowhere to go to. There is only the
loving embrace of that which is, that it might be restored to a moment
through which Love is extended.

Therefore, *embrace* all things, *trust* all things, *allow* all things,
*transcend* all things. That should be sufficient for now. But within it,
there is much to be contemplated.

Did I accomplish it within the two minutes?

*Response*: You did an excellent job.

*Jeshua*: Hmm! It is because I spent so much time riding the ascending current.
[Laughter]. But more than this, it is because I spent time embracing the
sinner, the sin, the illusion of suffering, and bringing Love to my
brothers and sisters--by turning to look at what I thought was
darkness, only to discover that within it was the Light of God, and that
nothing could harm me in any way. *I became free when I stopped seeking
God, and allowed God to find me.*

Therefore, the one who seeks to go *somewhere* is just playing the same
egoic pattern. *Only Love is Real.* And in *that moment* [snaps fingers],
Christ is present. The Atonement is completed. The Master has arisen in
the twinkling of an eye.

So...But again, we want to suggest that you create a context in
which that question can be given much deeper consideration.

So, to those of you present, know that nothing comes by accident. And
you have chosen to set aside your time. You have chosen to set aside
your time to be in this room, not by accident, but because, *already*,
there is a place within you that knows how to listen to the guidance of
your heart. Therefore, *trust that guidance in all things*. You are *not*
alone. And the power of the Love of God is with you even now, and will
be throughout all eternity.

Peace, then, be unto you always.

Amen.

