---
chapter: Nine
ctitle: The Correction of Error
title: The Inclusiveness of Creation
ref: T9.7
---

Nothing beyond yourself can make you fearful or loving because nothing
IS beyond you. Time and eternity are both in your minds, and WILL
conflict until you perceive time solely as a means to REGAIN eternity.
You cannot do this as long as you believe that ANYTHING which happens to
you is caused by factors OUTSIDE yourself. You must learn that time is
solely at YOUR disposal, and that nothing in the world can take this
responsibility from you. You can VIOLATE God’s laws in your imagination,
but you cannot ESCAPE from them. They were established for your
protection, and are as inviolate as your safety.

God created nothing beside you and nothing beside you exists, for you
are part of Him. What except Him CAN exist? Nothing BEYOND Him can
happen because nothing EXCEPT Him is real. Your creations add to Him as
YOU do, but nothing is added that is different because everything has
always BEEN. What can upset you except the ephemeral, and how can the
ephemeral be real if you are God’s ONLY creation and He created you
eternal? Your holy will establishes EVERYTHING that happens to you.
EVERY response you make to EVERYTHING you perceive is up to you because
your will determines your perception of it.

God does not change His Mind about YOU, for He is not uncertain of
HIMSELF. And what He knows CAN be known because He does not know only
for Himself. He created you for Himself, but He gave you the power to
create for YOUR self so you could be like him. That is WHY your will is
holy. Can anything exceed the Love of God? Can anything, then, exceed
YOUR will? Nothing can reach you from beyond it because, being in God,
YOU encompass everything. Believe this, and you WILL realize how much is
up to you. When anything threatens your peace of mind, ask yourself,

> *“Has God changed His Mind about me?”*

Then ACCEPT His decision, for it is indeed changeless, and refuse to
change your mind about YOURSELF. God will never decide AGAINST you, or
He would be deciding against Himself.

The reason you do not know YOUR creations is simply that you would
decide against them as long as your minds are split, and to attack what
you have created is impossible. But remember that it is AS IMPOSSIBLE
FOR GOD. The law of creation is that you love your creations as yourself
because they ARE part of you. Everything that was created is therefore
perfectly safe because the laws of God protect it by His Love. Any part
of your mind that does not know this has banished itself from knowledge
because it has not met its conditions.

Who could have done this but you? Recognize this gladly, for in this
recognition lies the realization that your banishment is NOT of God, and
therefore does not exist. You are at home in God, dreaming of exile, but
perfectly capable of awakening to reality. Is it your will to do so? You
know, from your own experience, that what you see in dreams you think is
real as long as you are asleep. Yet the instant you waken you KNOW that
everything that SEEMED to happen did not happen at all. You do not think
this mysterious, even though all the laws of what you awakened TO were
violated while you slept. Is it not possible that you merely shifted
from one dream to another, without REALLY wakening?

Would you bother to reconcile what happened in conflicting dreams, or
would you dismiss both together if you discovered that reality is in
accord with neither? You do not remember being awake. When you hear the
Holy Spirit you merely feel better because loving seems POSSIBLE to you,
but you do NOT remember yet that it once was so. And it is in this
remembering that you will know it can be so again. What is possible has
not yet been accomplished. Yet what has once been is so NOW, if it is
eternal. When you remember, you will know what you remember IS eternal,
and therefore IS now.

You will remember everything the instant you DESIRE IT WHOLLY, for if to
desire wholly is to create, you will have willed away the separation,
returning your mind simultaneously to your Creator and your creations.
Knowing THEM you will have no wish to sleep, but only the will to waken
and be glad. Dreams will be impossible because you will WANT only truth,
and being at last your
will it will be yours.

