---
chapter: Nine
ctitle: The Correction of Error
title: The Correction of Error
ref: T9.0
---

The alertness of the ego to the errors which other egos make is
not the kind of vigilance the Holy Spirit would have you maintain. Egos
are critical in terms of the kind of “sense” they stand for. THEY
understand this kind of sense, because it IS sensible to them. To the
Holy Spirit, it makes no sense at all. To the ego, it is kind and right
and good to point out errors and “correct” them. This makes perfect
sense to the ego, which is totally unaware of what errors ARE and what
correction IS.

Errors ARE of the ego, and correction of errors of any kind lies solely
in the RELINQUISHMENT of the ego. When you correct a brother, you are
telling him that he is wrong. He may be making no sense at the time, and
it is certain that, if he is speaking from the ego, he WILL be making no
sense. But your task is still to tell him he is RIGHT. You do not tell
him this verbally, if he is speaking foolishly, because he needs
correction at ANOTHER level, since his error IS at another level. HE is
still right, because he is a Son of God. His ego is always wrong, no
matter WHAT it says or does.

If you point out the errors of your brother’s ego, you must be seeing
through YOURS, because the Holy Spirit does not perceive his errors.
This must be true if there is no communication at all between the ego
and the Holy Spirit. The ego makes no sense, and the Holy Spirit does
not attempt to understand anything that arises from it. Since He does
not understand it, He does not JUDGE it,
knowing that nothing it engenders means anything.

