---
chapter: Nine
ctitle: The Correction of Error
title: The Unhealed Healer
ref: T9.3
---

The ego’s plan for forgiveness is far more widely used than God’s. This
is because it is undertaken by unhealed healers, and is therefore of the
ego. Let us consider the unhealed healer more carefully now. By
definition, he is trying to GIVE what he has not RECEIVED. If he is a
theologian, he may begin with the premise, “I am a miserable sinner and
so are you.” If he is a psychotherapist, he is more likely to start with
the equally incredible idea that HE really believes in attack and so
does the patient, but it does not matter in either case.

We have repeatedly stated that beliefs of the ego cannot be shared, and
this is WHY they are unreal. How, then, can “uncovering” them MAKE them
real? Every healer who searches fantasies for truth MUST be unhealed
because he does not KNOW where to look for truth, and therefore does not
have the answer to the problem of healing. There is an advantage to
bringing nightmares into awareness, but ONLY to teach that they are not
real, and that ANYTHING they contain is meaningless. The unhealed healer
cannot do this because he does not BELIEVE IT.

All unhealed healers follow the ego’s plan for forgiveness in one form
or another. If they are theologians, they are likely to condemn
themselves, teach condemnation, and advocate a very fearful solution.
Projecting condemnation onto God, they make Him appear retaliative and
fear His retribution. What they have done is merely to IDENTIFY with the
ego, and by perceiving clearly what IT does, condemn themselves because
of this profound confusion. It is understandable that there has been a
revolt against this concept, but to revolt AGAINST it is still to
BELIEVE in it. The FORM of the revolt, then, is different, but NOT the
content.

The newer forms of the ego’s plan are as unhelpful as the older ones,
because form does not matter to the Holy Spirit, and therefore
does not matter at all. According to the newer forms of the ego’s plan,
the therapist interprets the ego’s symbols in the nightmare, and then
uses them to prove that the NIGHTMARE is real. Having MADE it real, he
then attempts to dispel its effects by depreciating the importance OF
THE DREAMER. This WOULD be a healing approach if the dreamer were
properly identified as unreal. Yet if the dreamer is equated with the
MIND, the mind’s corrective power through the Holy Spirit is DENIED.

It is noteworthy that this is a contradiction even in the ego’s terms,
and one which it usually DOES note, even in its confusion. If the way to
counteract fear is to REDUCE the importance of the fearer, how can this
build ego STRENGTH? These perfectly self-evident inconsistencies account
for why, except in certain stylized verbal accounts, no-one can EXPLAIN
what happens in psychotherapy. Nothing real DOES. Nothing real has
happened to the unhealed healer, and he learns from his own teaching.

BECAUSE His ego is involved, it always attempts to gain some support
from the situation. Seeking to get something for HIMSELF the unhealed
healer does not know how to GIVE, and consequently cannot share. He
cannot correct because he is not working CORRECTIVELY. He believes that
it is up to him to teach the patient what is REAL, but he does not know
it himself. What, then, SHOULD happen? When God said, “Let there be
light” there WAS light. Can you find light by analyzing darkness as the
psychotherapist does, or like the theologian by acknowledging darkness
in yourself and looking for a distant light to remove it while
EMPHASIZING the distance?

Healing is NOT mysterious. Nothing will occur unless you understand it
since light IS understanding. A “miserable sinner” cannot be healed
without magic, nor can an “unimportant mind” esteem itself without
magic. Both forms of the ego’s approach, then, must arrive at an
impasse, the characteristic “impossible situation” to which the ego
ALWAYS leads. It CAN be helpful to point out to a patient where he is
heading, but the point is lost unless he can change his direction. The
therapist cannot do this for him, but he also cannot do this for
HIMSELF.

The ONLY meaningful contribution the therapist can make is
to present an example of one whose direction has been changed FOR him,
and who no longer believes in nightmares of ANY kind. The light in HIS
mind will therefore ANSWER the questioner, who must decide with God that
there IS light because he SEES it. And by HIS acknowledgment the
THERAPIST knows it is there. That is how perception ultimately is
translated into knowledge. The miracle worker begins by PERCEIVING
light, and translates HIS perception into sureness by continually
extending it and accepting its acknowledgment. Its EFFECTS assure him it
is there.

The therapist does not heal; HE LETS HEALING BE. He can point to
darkness, but he cannot bring light of HIMSELF, for light is not of
him. Yet, being FOR him, it must also be for his patient. The Holy Spirit
is the ONLY Therapist. He makes healing perfectly clear in ANY situation
in which he is the Guide. The human therapist can only let Him FULFILL
His function. He needs no help for this. He will tell you EXACTLY what
to do to help ANYONE He sends to you for help, and will speak to him
through you, if you do not INTERFERE. Remember that you ARE choosing a
guide for helping, and the WRONG choice will NOT help. But remember also
that the RIGHT one WILL. Trust Him, for help is His function, and He is
of God.

As you awaken other minds to the Holy Spirit through Him, and NOT
yourself, you will understand that you are not obeying the laws of this
world, but that the laws you are obeying WORK. “The good is what works”
is a sound though insufficient statement. ONLY the good CAN work.
Nothing else works at all. This course is a guide to behavior. Being a
very direct and very simple learning situation, it provides the Guide
Who TELLS you what to do. If you do it, you will SEE that it works. Its
RESULTS are more convincing than its words. They will convince you that
the words are true. By following the right Guide you will learn the
simplest of all lessons,

> *“By their fruits ye shall know them,*<br/>
> *and THEY shall know THEMSELVES”*

