---
chapter: Nine
ctitle: The Correction of Error
title: Magic versus Miracles
ref: T9.9
---

ALL magic is a form of reconciling the irreconcilable. All religion is
the recognition that the irreconcilable cannot BE reconciled. Sickness
and perfection ARE irreconcilable. If God created you perfect, you ARE
perfect. If you believe you can be sick, you have placed other gods
before Him. God is not at war with the god of sickness you made, but YOU
are. He is the symbol of willing AGAINST God, and you are afraid of him
BECAUSE he cannot be reconciled with God’s Will. If you attack him, you
will make him real to you. But if you refuse to worship him in whatever
form he may appear to you and wherever you think you see him, he will
disappear into the nothingness out of which he was made.

Reality can dawn only on an unclouded mind. It is always there to be
accepted, but its acceptance depends on your willingness to HAVE it. To
know reality must involve the willingness to judge UNREALITY for what it
is. This is the RIGHT use of selective perception. To overlook
nothingness is merely to judge it correctly, and because of your ability
to evaluate it truly, TO LET IT GO. Knowledge cannot dawn on a mind full
of illusions, because truth and illusions are irreconcilable. Truth is
whole, and CANNOT be known by part of a mind.

The Sonship cannot be perceived as PARTLY sick because to perceive it
that way is not to perceive it at all. If the Sonship is one, it is one
in ALL respects. Oneness CANNOT be divided. If you
perceive other gods your mind is split, and you will not be able to
LIMIT the split because the split IS the sign that you have removed part
of your mind from God’s Will, and this means it is out of control. To be
out of control is to be out of REASON, and the mind DOES become
unreasonable without reason. This is merely a matter of definition. By
DEFINING the mind wrongly, you perceive it as FUNCTIONING wrongly.

God’s laws will keep your minds at peace because peace is His Will, and
His laws are established to uphold it. His are the laws of freedom, but
yours are the laws of bondage. Since freedom and bondage are
irreconcilable, their laws cannot BE understood together. The laws of
God work only for your good, and there ARE no other laws beside His.
Everything else is merely lawless, and therefore chaotic. Yet God
Himself has protected everything He created BY His laws. Therefore,
everything that is not under them does not exist. “Laws of chaos” are
meaningless by definition. Creation is perfectly lawful, and the chaotic
is without meaning because it is without GOD. You have given your peace
to the gods you made, but they are not there to take it from you, and
you are not able to give it to them.

You are NOT free to give up freedom, but only to DENY it. You CANNOT do
what God did not intend because what He did not intend DOES NOT HAPPEN.
Your gods do not BRING chaos; you are ENDOWING them with chaos and
accepting it of them. All this has never been. Nothing but the laws of
God have ever operated, and nothing except His Will will ever be. You
were created through His laws and by His Will, and the manner of your
creation established you AS creators. What you have made is so unworthy
of you that you could hardly want it if you were willing to see it AS IT
IS. You will see nothing at all. And your vision will automatically look
beyond it to what is in you and all around you. Reality cannot break
through the obstructions you interpose, but it WILL envelop you
completely when you let them go.

When you have experienced the protection of God the making of idols
becomes inconceivable. There are no strange images in the Mind of God,
and what is not in His Mind cannot be in yours because you are of ONE
Mind, and that Mind belongs to HIM. It is yours BECAUSE it belongs to
Him, for ownership is sharing to Him. And if it is so for Him, it is so
for you. His definitions ARE His laws, for by them He established the
universe as what it is. No false gods you attempt to interpose between
yourself and your reality affect truth at all. Peace is yours because
God created you. And He created nothing else.

The miracle is the act of a Son of God who has laid aside all false
gods, and who calls on his brothers to do likewise. It is an act of
faith because it is the recognition that his brother can do it. It is a
call to the Holy Spirit in his mind, a call to Him which is strengthened
by this joining. Because the miracle worker has heard Him he strengthens
His Voice in a sick brother by weakening his BELIEF in sickness, which
he does NOT share. The power of one mind CAN shine into another because
all the lamps of God were lit by the same spark. It is everywhere and it
is eternal.

In many only the spark remains, for the great rays are obscured. Yet God
has kept the spark alive so that the rays can never be completely
forgotten. If you but see the little spark you will learn of the greater
light, for the rays are there unseen. Perceiving the spark will heal,
but knowing the light will create. Yet in the returning the little light
must be acknowledged first, for the separation was a descent from
magnitude to littleness. But the spark is still as pure as the great
light because it is the remaining call of creation. Put all your faith
in it, and God Himself will answer you.

