---
chapter: Nine
ctitle: The Correction of Error
title: The Awareness of the Holy Spirit
ref: T9.4
---

How can you become increasingly aware of the Holy Spirit in you
EXCEPT by His effects? You cannot see Him with your eyes, nor hear Him
with your ears. How, then, can you perceive Him at all? If you inspire
joy, and others react to you WITH joy, even though you are not
experiencing joy yourself, there MUST be something in you that is
capable of producing it. If it IS in you and CAN produce joy, and if you
see that it DOES produce joy in others, you MUST be dissociating it in
yourself.

It seems to you that the Holy Spirit does NOT produce joy consistently
in you ONLY because you do not consistently AROUSE joy in others. Their
reactions to you ARE your evaluations of His consistency. When you are
inconsistent you will not always GIVE RISE to joy, and so you will not
always RECOGNIZE His consistency. What you offer to your brother you
offer to Him, because He cannot go BEYOND your offering in His giving.
This is not because He limits His giving, but simply because you have
limited your RECEIVING. The will to receive is the will to accept.

If your brothers ARE part of you, will you ACCEPT them? Only they can
teach you what you are, and your learning is the result of what you
taught them. What you call upon in them you call upon in YOURSELF. And as
you call upon it in them it becomes real to YOU. God has but one Son,
knowing them all AS one. Only God Himself is more than they, but they
are not less than He is. Would you know what this means? If what you do
to my brother you do to me, and if you do everything for yourself
because we are PART of you, everything WE do belongs to you as well.
Every Soul God created IS part of you, and shares His glory WITH you.
His Glory belongs to Him, but it is equally YOURS. You cannot, then, be
LESS glorious than He is.

God is more than you only because He CREATED you, but not even this
would He keep from you. Therefore you CAN create as He did, and your
dissociation will NOT alter this. Neither God’s Light NOR YOURS is
dimmed because you do not see. Because the Sonship MUST create as one,
you remember creation whenever you recognize PART of creation. Each part
you remember adds to YOUR wholeness because each part IS whole.
Wholeness is indivisible, but you cannot learn of your wholeness until
you see it EVERYWHERE. You can KNOW yourself only as God knows His Son,
for knowledge
is shared WITH God. When You awake in Him you will know your magnitude
by accepting His limitlessness as YOURS, but meanwhile you will judge it
as you judge your brothers’ and will accept it as you accept THEIRS.

You are not yet awake, but you can learn HOW to awaken. Very simply the
Holy Spirit teaches you to awaken others. As you see them waken you will
learn what waking MEANS, and because you have willed to wake them, their
gratitude and their appreciation of what you have given them will teach
YOU its value. THEY will become the witnesses to your reality, as YOU
were created witnesses to God’s. Yet when the Sonship comes together and
ACCEPTS its oneness, it will be known by its creations, who witness to
its reality as the Son does to the Father.

Miracles have no place in eternity because they are reparative. Yet
while you still need healing, your miracles are the only witnesses to
your reality which you can RECOGNIZE. You cannot perform a miracle for
YOURSELF because miracles are a way of GIVING acceptance AND receiving
it. In time the giving comes first, though they are simultaneous in
eternity, where they cannot BE separated. When you have learned that
they ARE the same, the need for time is over.

Eternity is ONE time, its only dimension being “always”. This cannot
mean anything to you, however, until you remember God’s open arms and
finally know His open Mind. Like Him, YOU are “always” in His Mind and
with a mind like His. In YOUR open mind are YOUR creations, in perfect
communication born of perfect understanding. Could you but accept one of
them, you would not want ANYTHING the world has to offer. Everything
else would be totally meaningless. God’s meaning is incomplete without
you, and you are incomplete without your creations. Accept your brother
in this world and accept NOTHING ELSE, for in him you will find your
creations because he created them WITH you. You will never know that you
are co-creator with God until you learn that your brother is a
co-creator with YOU.

