---
chapter: Nine
ctitle: The Correction of Error
title: Salvation and God’s Will
ref: T9.5
---

God’s Will is your salvation. Would He not have given you the means
to find it? If He wills you to HAVE it, He must have made it possible
and very easy to obtain it. Your brothers are everywhere. You do not have
to seek far for salvation. Every minute and every second gives you a
chance to save YOURSELF. Do not lose these chances, not because they
will not return, but because delay of joy is needless. God wills you
perfect happiness NOW. Is it possible that this is not also YOUR will?
And is it possible that this is not ALSO the will of your brothers?

Consider, then, that in this joint will you ARE all united, and in this
ONLY. There will be disagreement on anything else, but NOT on this. This,
then, is where peace ABIDES. And YOU abide in peace when you so
decide. Yet you cannot abide in peace unless you accept the Atonement
because the Atonement IS the way to peace. The reason is very simple,
and so obvious that it is often overlooked. That is because the ego is
AFRAID of the obvious, since obviousness is the essential characteristic
of reality. Yet YOU cannot overlook it unless you are NOT LOOKING.

It is PERFECTLY obvious that, if the Holy Spirit looks with love on ALL
He perceives, He looks with love on YOU. His evaluation of you is based
on His knowledge of what you are, and so He evaluates you truly. And
this evaluation MUST be in your mind because He is. The ego is also in
your mind because you have ACCEPTED it there. ITS evaluation of you,
however, is the exact opposite of the Holy Spirit’s because the ego does
NOT love you. It is unaware of what you are, and wholly mistrustful of
EVERYTHING it perceives because its own perceptions are so shifting. The
ego is therefore capable of suspiciousness at best and viciousness at
worst. That is its range. It cannot exceed it because of its
uncertainty. And it can never go BEYOND it because it can never BE
certain.

You, then, have two CONFLICTING evaluations of yourself in your minds,
and they CANNOT both be true. You do not yet realize how COMPLETELY
different these evaluations are because you do not understand how lofty
the Holy Spirit’s perception of you really is. He is not deceived by
anything you do because he never forgets what you ARE. The ego is
deceived by everything you do, even when you respond to the Holy Spirit,
because at such times its confusion INCREASES. The ego is, therefore,
particularly likely to
attack you when you react lovingly because it has evaluated you as
UNLOVING, and you are going AGAINST its judgement.

The ego will begin to ATTACK your motives as soon as they become clearly
out of accord with its perception of you. This is when it will shift
abruptly from suspiciousness to viciousness, since its uncertainty is
increased. Yet it is surely pointless to attack in return. What can this
mean except that you are AGREEING with the ego’s evaluation of what you
are? If you are willing to see yourself as unloving, you will NOT be
happy. You are condemning yourself, and MUST therefore regard yourself as
inadequate. Would you look to the ego to help you escape from a sense of
inadequacy it has PRODUCED, and must MAINTAIN for its existence? Can you
ESCAPE from its evaluation of you by using its methods for keeping this
picture INTACT?

You cannot evaluate an insane belief system from WITHIN it. Its own
range precludes this. You can only go BEYOND it, look back from a point
where SANITY exists, AND SEE THE CONTRAST. Only BY this contrast can
insanity be judged as insane. With the grandeur of God in you, you have
chosen to be little and to lament your littleness. WITHIN the system
which dictated this choice the lament IS inevitable. Your littleness is
taken for granted there, and you do NOT ask, “Who granted it?” The
question is meaningless within the ego’s thought system because it opens
the WHOLE thought system to question.

We said before that the ego does not know what a real question is. Lack
of knowledge of any kind is always associated with UNWILLINGNESS to
know, and produces a total lack of knowledge simply because knowledge IS
total. Not to question your littleness, therefore, is to deny ALL
knowledge and keep the ego’s WHOLE thought system intact. You cannot
retain PART of a thought system because it can be questioned ONLY at its
foundation. And this must be questioned from beyond it because WITHIN it
its foundation DOES stand. The Holy Spirit judges against the reality of
the ego’s thought system merely because He knows its FOUNDATION is not
true. Therefore, nothing that arises from it means anything. The Holy
Spirit judges every belief you hold in terms of where it comes from. If
it comes from God, He knows it to be true. If it does not, He
knows that it is meaningless.

Whenever you question your value, say:

> *“God Himself is incomplete without me.”*

Remember this when the ego speaks, and you will not hear it. The truth
about you is so lofty that nothing unworthy of God is worthy of you.
Choose, then, what you want in these terms, and accept nothing that you
would not offer to God as wholly fitting for Him, for you do not WANT
anything else. Return your part of Him, and He will give you all of
Himself in exchange for your return of what belongs to Him and renders
Him complete.

