---
chapter: Nine
ctitle: The Correction of Error
title: Sanity and Perception
ref: T9.1
---

When you react AT ALL to errors, you are not listening to the Holy
Spirit. He has merely disregarded them, and if you attend to them, you
are not hearing HIM. If you do not hear Him, you ARE listening to your
ego, and making as little sense as the brother whose errors you
perceive. This cannot be correction. Yet it is more than merely lack of
correction for him. It is the giving up of correction in YOURSELF.

When a brother behaves insanely, you can heal him only by perceiving the
SANITY in him. If you perceive his errors and ACCEPT them, you are
accepting YOURS. If you want to give yours over to the Holy Spirit, you
must do this with his. Unless this becomes the one way in which you
handle ALL errors, you cannot understand how all errors are UNDONE. How
is this different from telling you that what you teach you learn? Your
brother is as right as you are, and if you think he is wrong you are
condemning yourself.

YOU cannot correct YOURSELF. Is it possible, then, for you to correct
another? Yet you CAN see him truly because it is possible for you to see
YOURSELF truly. It is not up to you to change him, but merely to accept
him as he IS. His errors do not come from the truth that is in him, and
only this truth is yours. His errors cannot change this, and can have no
effect at all on the truth in YOU. To perceive errors in anyone, and to
react to them as if they were real, is to MAKE them real to you. You
will not escape paying the price for this, not because you are being
punished for it, but because you are following the wrong guide, and will
lose your way.

Your brother’s errors are not of him, any more than yours are of YOU.
Accept his errors as real, and you have attacked YOURSELF. If you would
find your way and keep it see only truth beside you, for you walk
together. The Holy Spirit in you forgives all things in you AND in your
brother. HIS errors are forgiven WITH yours. Atonement is no more
separate than love. Atonement cannot be separate because it COMES from
love. ANY attempt you make to correct a brother means that you believe
correction by YOU is possible, and this can ONLY be the arrogance of the
ego. Correction
is of God,Who does not know of arrogance. The Holy Spirit forgives
everything BECAUSE God created everything.

Do not undertake HIS function or you will forget YOURS. Accept ONLY the
function of healing in time because that is what time is FOR. God GAVE
you the function to create in eternity. You do not need to learn this,
but you DO need to learn to WANT this, and for this all learning was
made. This is the Holy Spirit’s good use of an ability which you do not
NEED, but which you HAVE made. Give it to Him! You do not know how to
use it. He will teach you how to see yourself without condemnation by
learning how to look on EVERYTHING without it. Condemnation will then
not be real to you, and all your errors WILL be forgiven.

