---
chapter: Eight
ctitle: The Journey Back
title: The Light of the World
ref: T8.4
---

If God’s Will for you is complete peace and joy, unless you experience
ONLY this you must be refusing to ACKNOWLEDGE His Will. His Will does
not vacillate, being changeless forever. When you are not at peace, it
can only be because you do not believe you ARE in Him. Yet He is all in
all. His peace is complete, and you MUST be included in it. His laws
govern you because they govern EVERYTHING. You cannot exempt yourself
from His laws, although you can disobey them. Yet if you do, and ONLY if
you do, you WILL feel lonely and helpless because you are denying
yourself everything.

I am come as a light into a world that DOES deny itself everything. It
does this simply by dissociating itself FROM everything. It is therefore
an illusion of isolation, maintained by fear of the same loneliness
which IS its illusion. I have told you that I am with you always, even
to the end of the world. That is WHY I am the light of the world. If I am
with you in the loneliness of the world, THE LONELINESS IS GONE. You
CANNOT maintain the illusion of loneliness if you are NOT alone. My
purpose, then, IS to overcome the world. I do not attack it, but my
light must dispel it because of what it IS.

Light does not attack darkness, but it DOES shine it away. If my light
goes with you everywhere, YOU shine it away WITH me. The light becomes
OURS, and you cannot abide in darkness any more than darkness can abide
wherever you go. The remembrance of me IS the remembrance of yourself
and of Him Who sent me to you. You were in darkness until God’s Will was
done completely by ANY part of the Sonship. When this was done, it was
perfectly accomplished by ALL. How else could it BE perfectly
accomplished? My mission was simply to unite the will of the Sonship
with the Will of the Father by being aware of the Father’s Will myself.
This is the awareness I came to give you, and your problem in accepting
it IS the problem of this world. Dispelling it is salvation, and in this
sense I AM the salvation of the world.

The world must despise and reject me because the world IS the belief
that love is impossible. YOUR reactions to me are the reactions of the
world to God. If you will accept the fact that I am with you, you are
DENYING the world and ACCEPTING God. My will is His, and YOUR will to
hear me is the decision to hear His Voice and abide in His Will. As God
sent me to you, so will I send you to others. And I will go to them WITH
you, so we can teach them peace and union.

Do you not think the world NEEDS peace as much as you do? Do you not
want to GIVE it to the world as much as you want to RECEIVE it? For
unless you do, you will NOT receive it. If you will to have it of me,
you MUST give it. Rehabilitation does not come from anyone else. You can
have guidance from without, but you must ACCEPT it from within. The
guidance must be what YOU want, or it will be meaningless to you. That
is why rehabilitation is a collaborative venture.

I can tell you what to do, but this will not help you unless you
collaborate by believing that I KNOW what to do. Only then will your
mind choose to follow me. Without YOUR will you cannot BE rehabilitated.
MOTIVATION to be healed is the crucial factor in rehabilitation. Without
this, you are deciding AGAINST healing, and your veto of my will for you
MAKES HEALING IMPOSSIBLE. If healing IS our joint will, unless our wills
ARE joined you CANNOT be healed. This is obvious when you consider what
healing is FOR. Healing is the way in which the separation is overcome.
Separation is overcome by UNION. It cannot be overcome by separating.

The WILL to unite must be unequivocal, or the will ITSELF is divided or
not whole. Your will is the means by which you determine your own
condition because will is the MECHANISM of decision. It is the power by
which you separate or join, and experience pain or joy accordingly. My
will cannot OVERCOME yours, because yours is as powerful as mine. If it
were not so, the Sons of God would be unequal. All things are possible
through our JOINT will, but my will alone cannot help you. Your will is
as free as mine, and God Himself would not go against it. *I* cannot
will what God does NOT will. I can offer you my will to make YOURS
invincible by this sharing, but I cannot OPPOSE yours without competing
with it, and thereby violating God’s Will for you.

Nothing God created can oppose your will, as nothing God created can
oppose His. God GAVE your will its power, which I can only acknowledge
in honor of HIS. If you want to be like me I will help you, knowing that
we ARE alike. If you want to be different, I will wait until you change
your mind. I can TEACH you, but only you can choose to LISTEN to my
teaching. How else can it be, if God’s Kingdom IS freedom? Freedom
cannot be learned by tyranny of any kind, and the perfect equality of
ALL God’s Sons cannot be recognized through the dominion of one will
over another. God’s Sons are equal in will, all being the Will of their
Father. This is the ONLY lesson I came to teach, knowing that it is
true.

When your will is NOT mine, it is not our Father’s. This means that you
have imprisoned YOURS, and have not LET it be free. Of yourselves you
can do nothing, because of yourselves you ARE nothing. I am nothing
without the Father, and YOU are nothing without ME because, by denying
the Father, you deny YOURSELF. I will ALWAYS remember you, and in MY
remembrance of you lies your remembrance of YOURSELF. In our remembrance
of EACH OTHER lies our remembrance of God. And in this remembrance lies
your freedom because your freedom IS in Him. Join, then, with me in
praise of Him AND you whom He created. This is our gift of gratitude to
Him, which He will share with ALL His creations, to whom He gives
equally whatever is acceptable to Him. BECAUSE it is acceptable to Him
it is the gift of freedom, which IS His Will for all His Sons. By
OFFERING freedom YOU will be free.

Freedom is the only gift you can offer to God’s Sons, being an
ACKNOWLEDGMENT of what THEY are and what HE is. Freedom is creation
because it is love. What you seek to imprison you do NOT love. Therefore,
when you seek to imprison anyone, including YOURSELF, you do not love
him, and you cannot identify WITH him. When you imprison yourself, you
are losing sight of your true identification with me and with the
Father. Your identification IS with the Father and with the Son. It
CANNOT be with one and not the other. If you are part of one, you must
be part of the other because they ARE One.

The Holy Trinity is holy BECAUSE It is One. If you exclude YOURSELF from
this union, you are perceiving the Holy Trinity as separated. You must be
included IN It, because It IS everything. Unless you take your place in
It and fulfill your function as PART of It, It is as bereft as YOU are.
No part of It can be imprisoned if Its truth is to be known. Can you be
separated from your identification and be at peace? Dissociation is not
a solution; it is a DELUSION. The delusional believe that truth will
assail them, and so they do not SEE it because they PREFER the delusion.
Judging truth as something they do NOT want, they perceive deception and
block knowledge.

Help them by offering them YOUR unified will on their behalf, as I am
offering you mine on YOURS. Alone we can do nothing, but TOGETHER, our
wills fuse into something whose power is far beyond the power of its
separate parts. By NOT BEING SEPARATE, the Will of God is established IN
ours and AS ours. This Will is invincible BECAUSE it is undivided. The
undivided will of the Sonship is the perfect creator, being wholly in
the likeness of God, Whose Will it is. YOU cannot be exempt from it, if
you are to understand what IT is and what YOU are. By separating your
will FROM mine, you are exempting yourself from the Will of God which IS
yourself.

Yet to heal is still to make whole. Therefore, to heal is to UNITE with
those who are like you because perceiving this likeness IS to recognize
the Father. If YOUR perfection is in Him and ONLY in Him, how can you
KNOW it without recognizing Him? The recognition of God IS the
recognition of yourself. There IS no separation of God and His creation.
You will learn this as you learn that there is no separation of YOUR
will and MINE. Let the Love of God shine upon you by your acceptance of
me. MY reality is yours AND His. By joining your will with mine you are
signifying your awareness that the Will of God is one.

God’s Oneness and ours are not separate because His Oneness ENCOMPASSES
ours. To join with me is to restore His power to you BECAUSE we are
sharing it. I offer you only the RECOGNITION of His power in you, but in
that lies ALL truth. As WE unite, we unite with Him. Glory be to the
union of God and His holy Sons! All glory lies in them BECAUSE they are
united. The miracles we do bear witness to the Will of the Father for
His Son, and to our joy in uniting WITH His Will for us.

When you unite with me, you are uniting WITHOUT the ego because I have
renounced the ego in myself, and therefore CANNOT unite with yours. OUR
union is therefore the way to renounce the ego in YOURSELF. The truth in
both of us is BEYOND the ego. By willing that, you HAVE gone beyond it
toward truth. Our success in transcending the ego is guaranteed by God,
and I can share this confidence for both of us and ALL of us. I bring
God’s peace back to all His children because I received it of Him for us
all. Nothing can prevail against our united wills because nothing can
prevail against God’s. Would you know the Will of God for YOU? Ask it of
me who knows it FOR you, and you will find it. I will deny you nothing,
as God denies ME nothing.

Ours is simply the journey back to God, Who is our home. Whenever fear
intrudes anywhere along the road to peace, it is ALWAYS because the ego
has attempted to join the journey with us, and CANNOT DO SO. Sensing
defeat and angered by it, the ego
regards itself as rejected and becomes retaliative. You are invulnerable
to its retaliation BECAUSE I AM WITH YOU. On this journey you have
chosen me as your companion INSTEAD of the ego. Do not try to hold on to
both, or you will try to go in different directions, and will lose the
way.

The ego’s way is not mine, but it is also NOT YOURS. The Holy Spirit has
ONE direction for ALL minds, and the one He taught me is YOURS. Let us
not lose sight of His direction through illusions, for only illusions of
another direction can obscure the one for which God’s Voice speaks in
all of us. Never accord the ego the power to interfere with the journey
because it HAS none, since the journey is the way to what is true. Leave
ALL deception behind, and reach beyond all attempts of the ego to hold
you back. I go before you because I AM beyond the ego. Reach, therefore,
for my hand because you WANT to transcend the ego. My will will NEVER be
wanting, and if you WANT to share it, you WILL. I give it willingly and
gladly because I need you as much as you need me.

