---
chapter: Eight
ctitle: The Journey Back
title: The Rationale for Choice
ref: T8.2
---

There IS a rationale for choice. Only one Teacher KNOWS what your
reality is. If learning that is the PURPOSE of the curriculum, you must
learn it of Him. The ego does not KNOW what it is trying to teach. It is
trying to teach you what you are WITHOUT knowing it. The ego is expert
only in confusion. It does not understand anything else. As a teacher,
then, it is totally confused and TOTALLY CONFUSING. Even if you could
disregard the Holy Spirit entirely, which is quite impossible, you could
learn nothing from the ego because the ego KNOWS nothing.

Is there ANY possible reason for choosing a teacher such as this? Does
the total disregard of anything it teaches make anything BUT sense? Is
this the teacher to whom a Son of God should turn to find HIMSELF? The
ego has never given you a sensible answer to ANYTHING. Simply on the
grounds of your own experience with the ego’s teaching, should not this
alone disqualify it as your future teacher? Yet the ego has done more
harm to your learning than this alone. Learning is joyful if it leads
you along your natural path, and facilitates the development of what you
HAVE. When you are taught AGAINST your nature, however, you will LOSE by
your learning because your learning will imprison you. Your will is IN
your nature, and therefore CANNOT go against it.

The ego cannot teach you anything as long as your will is free because
you will not LISTEN to it. It is NOT your will to be imprisoned BECAUSE
your will is free. That is why the ego is the DENIAL of free will. It is
NEVER God Who coerces you because He SHARES His Will with you. His Voice
teaches ONLY His Will, but that is not the Holy Spirit’s lesson because
that is what you ARE. The LESSON is that your will and God’s cannot be
out of accord BECAUSE they are one. This is the undoing of EVERYTHING
the ego tries to teach. It is not, then, only the direction of the
curriculum which must be unconflicted, but also the CONTENT.

The ego wants to teach you that you want to OPPOSE God’s Will. This
UNNATURAL lesson cannot BE learned, but the ATTEMPT to learn it is a
violation of your own freedom, and makes you afraid of your will BECAUSE
it is free. The Holy Spirit opposes ANY imprisoning of the will of a Son
of God, KNOWING that the will of the Son IS the Father’s. The Holy
Spirit leads you steadily along the path of freedom, teaching you how to
disregard, or look beyond, EVERYTHING that would hold you back.

We said before that the Holy Spirit teaches you the difference between
pain and joy. That is the same as saying that He teaches you the
difference between imprisonment and freedom. YOU cannot make this
distinction WITHOUT Him. That is because you have taught yourself that
imprisonment IS freedom. Believing them to be the same, how CAN you tell
them apart? Can you ask the part of your mind that taught you to believe
they ARE the same to teach you the DIFFERENCE between them?

The Holy Spirit’s teaching takes only ONE direction and has only ONE
goal. His direction is freedom and His goal is God. Yet he cannot
conceive of God without YOU because it is not God’s Will to BE without
you. When you have learned that your will IS God’s, you could no more
will to be without Him than He could will to be without YOU. This IS
freedom and this IS joy. Deny yourself this and you ARE denying God His
Kingdom because He created you FOR this. When we said, “All power and
glory are yours because the Kingdom is His,” this is what we meant:

The Will of God is without limit, and all power and glory lie within it.
It is boundless in strength and in love and in peace. It has no
boundaries because Its extension is unlimited, and It encompasses all
things because It created all things. By creating all things It made
them part of Itself. YOU are the Will of God because this is how you
were created. Because your Creator creates ONLY like Himself, you ARE
like Him. You are part of Him Who IS all power and glory, and are
therefore as unlimited as He is.

To what else EXCEPT all power and glory can the Holy Spirit appeal to
restore God’s Kingdom? His appeal, then, is merely to what
the Kingdom IS, and for its own acknowledgment of what it is. When you
acknowledge this, you bring the acknowledgment automatically to everyone
because you HAVE acknowledged everyone. By YOUR recognition you awaken
THEIRS, and through theirs YOURS is extended. Awakening runs easily and
gladly through the Kingdom, in answer to the Call of God. This is the
natural response of every Son of God to the Voice of his Creator,
because it is the Voice for HIS creations and for HIS own extension.

