---
chapter: Eight
ctitle: The Journey Back
title: The Power of Joint Decision
ref: T8.5
---

WE are the joint will of the Sonship, whose wholeness is for all. We
begin the journey back by setting out TOGETHER, and gather in our
brothers as we CONTINUE together. Every gain in our strength is offered
for all, so they, too, can lay aside their weakness and add their
strength to us. God’s welcome waits for us all, and He will welcome us
as I am welcoming you. Forget not the Kingdom of God for anything the
world has to offer. The world can add nothing to the power and the glory
of God and His holy Sons, but it CAN blind the Sons to the Father if
they behold it. You cannot behold the world and know God. Only one is
true.

I am come to tell you that the choice of which is true is not yours. If
it were, you would have destroyed yourselves. Yet God did not will the
destruction of His creations, having created them for eternity. His Will
has saved you, not from yourselves but from your ILLUSIONS of
yourselves. He has saved you FOR yourselves. Let us glorify Him Whom the
world denies, for over His Kingdom it has no power. No-one created by
God can find joy in anything EXCEPT the eternal. That is not because he
is deprived of anything else, but
because nothing else is WORTHY of him. What God and His Sons create IS
eternal, and in this and this only is their joy.

Listen to the story of the prodigal son, and learn what God’s treasure
is and YOURS:This son of a loving father left his home and thought he
squandered everything for nothing of any value, although he did not know
its worthlessness at the time. He was ashamed to return to his father,
because he thought he had hurt him. Yet when he came home, the father
welcomed him with joy because only the son himself WAS his father’s
treasure. He WANTED nothing else.

God wants only His Son because His Son is His only treasure. You want
YOUR creations as He wants HIS. Your creations are your gift to the Holy
Trinity, created in gratitude for YOUR creation. They do not leave you
any more than you have left YOUR Creator, but they EXTEND your creation
as God extended Himself to YOU. Can the creations of God Himself take
joy in what is not real? And what IS real except the creations of God
and those which are created like His? YOUR creations love you as your
Soul loves your Father for the gift of creation. There IS no other gift
which is eternal, and therefore there is no other gift which is TRUE.

How, then, can you ACCEPT anything else or GIVE anything else, and
expect joy in return? And what else but joy would you WANT? You made
neither yourself nor your function. You made only the DECISION to be
unworthy of both. Yet you could not make YOURSELF unworthy, because you
are the treasure of God. What HE values IS valuable. There can BE no
question of its worth because its value lies in God’s sharing Himself
with it and ESTABLISHING its value forever.

YOUR function is to add to God’s treasure by creating YOURS. His Will TO
you is His Will FOR you. He would not withhold creation from you because
HIS joy is in it. You cannot find joy EXCEPT as God does. HIS joy lay in
creating YOU, and He extends His Fatherhood to you so that you can
extend yourself as He did. You do not understand this because you do not
understand HIM. No-one who does not know his function can understand it,
and no-one CAN know his function unless he knows who he IS. Creation is
the Will of God. His Will created you to create. Your will was not
created separate from His, and so it wills as HE wills.

An “unwilling will” does not mean anything, being a contradiction in
terms which actually leaves nothing. When you THINK you are unwilling to
will with God, YOU ARE NOT THINKING. God’s Will is thought. It cannot be
contradicted BY thought. God does not contradict HIMSELF, and His Sons,
who are like Him, cannot contradict themselves OR Him. Yet their thought
is so powerful that they can even imprison the minds of God’s Sons, IF
THEY SO CHOOSE. This choice DOES make the Son’s function unknown to HIM,
but NEVER to his Creator. And BECAUSE it is not unknown to his Creator,
it is forever knowable to him.

There is no question but one you should ever ask of yourself:– “Do I
WANT to know my Father’s Will for me?” He will not hide it. He has
revealed it to me because I asked it of Him, and learned of what He had
already given. Our function is to function together because, APART from
each other, we cannot function at all. The whole power of God’s Son lies
in all of us, but not in any of us alone. God would not have us be alone
because HE does not will to be alone. That is why He created His Son,
and gave him the power to create with Him.

Our creations are as holy as we are, and we are the Sons of God Himself,
and therefore as holy as He is. Through our creations we extend our
love, and thus increase the joy of the Holy Trinity. You do not
understand this for a very simple reason. You who are God’s own treasure
do not regard yourselves as valuable. Given this belief, you cannot
understand ANYTHING. I share with God the knowledge of the value HE puts
upon you. My devotion to you is of Him, being born of my knowledge of
myself AND Him. We cannot BE separated. Whom God has joined cannot be
separated, and God has joined all His Sons with Himself. Can you be
separated from your life and your being?

The journey to God is merely the reawakening of the knowledge of WHERE
you are always, and WHAT you are forever. It is a journey without
distance to a goal that has never changed. Truth can only be
EXPERIENCED. It cannot be described, and it cannot be explained. I can
make you aware of the CONDITIONS of truth, but the experience is of God.
Together we can meet its conditions, but truth will dawn upon you of
itself.

What God has willed for you IS yours. He has given His Will to His
treasure, whose treasure It is. Your heart lies where your treasure is,
as His does. You who are beloved of God are wholly blessed. Learn this of
me, and free the holy will of all those who are as blessed as YOU are.

