---
chapter: Eight
ctitle: The Journey Back
title: The Holy Encounter
ref: T8.3
---

Glory be to God in the highest, and to YOU because He has so willed it.
Ask and it shall be given you because it has already BEEN given. Ask for
light and learn that you ARE light. If you want understanding and
enlightenment you WILL learn it, because your will to learn it is your
decision to listen to the Teacher Who KNOWS of light, and can therefore
TEACH it to you. There is no limit on your learning because there is no
limit on your MINDS. There is no limit on His will to teach because He
was created TO teach. KNOWING His function perfectly He wills to fulfill
it perfectly, because that is His joy and YOURS.

To fulfill the Will of God perfectly is the only joy and peace that can
be fully known because it is the only function that can be fully
EXPERIENCED. When this is accomplished, then, there IS no other
experience. Yet the WISH for other experience will block its
accomplishment because God’s Will cannot be forced upon you, being an
experience of total WILLINGNESS. The Holy Spirit knows how to teach this,
but YOU do not. That is why you need Him and why God GAVE Him to you.
Only HIS teaching will release your will to God’s, uniting it with His
power and glory, and establishing them as YOURS. You share them as God
shares them because this is the natural outcome of their being.

The Will of the Father and of the Son are One together BY THEIR
EXTENSION. Their extension is the RESULT of their Oneness, holding their
unity together by extending their JOINT will. This is perfect creation
by the perfectly created in union with the Perfect Creator. The Father
MUST give fatherhood to His Son because His own Fatherhood must be
extended outward. You who
belong in God have the holy function of extending His Fatherhood by
placing NO limits upon It. Let the Holy Spirit teach you HOW to do this,
for you will know what it MEANS of God Himself.

When you meet anyone, remember it is a holy encounter. As you see him
you will see yourself. As you treat him you will treat yourself. As you
think of him you will think of yourself. Never forget this, for in him
you will find yourself or lose sight of yourself. Whenever two Sons of
God meet, they are given another chance at salvation. Do not leave
anyone without giving salvation TO him and receiving it yourself. For I
am always there with you, in remembrance of YOU.

The goal of the curriculum, regardless of the teacher you choose, is
KNOW THYSELF. There is nothing else to learn. Everyone is looking for
himself, and for the power and glory he thinks he has lost. Whenever you
are with anyone, you have another opportunity to find them. Your power
and glory are in him BECAUSE they are yours. The ego tries to find them
in YOURSELF because it does not know where to look. The Holy Spirit
teaches you that, if you look ONLY at yourself, you CANNOT find yourself
because that is not what you ARE.

Whenever you are with a brother, you are learning what you are because
you are TEACHING what you are. He will respond either with pain or with
joy, depending on which teacher YOU are following. HE will be imprisoned
or released according to your decision, AND SO WILL YOU. Never forget
your responsibility to him because it is your responsibility to
YOURSELF. Give him HIS place in the Kingdom, and you will have YOURS.
The Kingdom CANNOT be found alone, and you who ARE the Kingdom cannot
find YOURSELVES alone.

To achieve the goal of the curriculum, then, you CANNOT listen to the
ego. ITS purpose is to DEFEAT its own goal. The ego does not know this
because it does not know anything. But YOU can know this, and you WILL
know it if you are willing to look at what the ego has made of YOU. This
IS your responsibility because, once you have really done this, you WILL
accept the Atonement for yourself. What other choice could you make?
Having made this choice, you will begin to learn and understand why you
have
believed that, when you met someone else, you had thought that he WAS
someone else. And every holy encounter in which YOU enter fully will
teach you THIS IS NOT SO.

You can encounter ONLY part of yourself because you are part of God,Who
IS everything. His power and glory are everywhere, and you CANNOT be
excluded from them. The ego teaches that your strength is in you
ALONE. The Holy Spirit teaches that ALL strength is in God and THEREFORE
in you. God wills NO-ONE suffer. He does not will anyone to suffer for a
wrong decision, INCLUDING you. That is why He has given you the means
for UNDOING it. Through His power and glory all your wrong decisions are
undone COMPLETELY releasing you AND your brothers from EVERY imprisoning
thought ANY part of the Sonship has accepted. Wrong decisions have no
power BECAUSE they are not true. The imprisonment which they SEEM to
produce is no more true than THEY are.

Power and glory belong to God alone. So do YOU. God gives WHATEVER
belongs to Him because He gives of Himself, and EVERYTHING belongs to
Him. Giving of YOUR self is the function He gave you. Fulfilling it
perfectly will teach you what you HAVE of Him, and this will teach you
what you ARE in Him. You CANNOT be powerless to do this because this IS
your power. Glory is God’s gift to you because that is what HE is. See
this glory everywhere to learn what YOU are.

