---
chapter: Eight
ctitle: The Journey Back
title: The Acceptance of Reality
ref: T8.9
---

Fear of the Will of God is one of the strangest beliefs that the human
mind has ever made. This could not possibly have occurred unless the mind
were ALREADY profoundly split, making it possible for the mind to be
AFRAID of what it really is. It is apparent that reality cannot
“threaten” anything except illusions, since reality can only uphold
truth. The very fact that the Will of God, which is what you ARE, is
perceived as fearful to you demonstrates that you ARE afraid of what you
are. It is not, then, the Will of God of which you are afraid, but
YOURS. Your will is NOT the ego’s, and that is WHY the ego is against
you. What seems to be the fear of God is really only the fear OF YOUR OWN
REALITY.

It is impossible to learn anything consistently in a state of panic. If
the purpose of this course is to help you learn what you are, and if you
have already DECIDED that what you are is fearful, then it MUST follow
that you will NOT learn this course. Yet you might remember that the
reason FOR the course is that you do NOT know who you are. If you do not
know your reality, how would you know whether it is fearful or not?

The association of truth and fear, which would be highly artificial at
most, is particularly inappropriate in the minds of those who do not
know what truth IS. All that this kind of association means is that you
are arbitrarily endowing something quite beyond your awareness with
something you DO NOT WANT. It is evident, then, that you are judging
something of which you are totally UNAWARE. You have set this strange
situation up so that it is completely impossible to escape from it
WITHOUT a Guide Who DOES know what your reality is. The purpose of this
Guide is
merely to remind you of what you WANT. He is not attempting to force an
alien will UPON you. He is merely making every possible effort, within
the limits you impose on Him, to RE-ESTABLISH your own will in your
consciousness.

You have IMPRISONED your will in your UNCONSCIOUS, where it remains
available but cannot help you. When we said that the Holy Spirit’s
function is to sort out the true from the false in your unconscious, we
meant that He has the power to look into what YOU have hidden and
perceive the Will of God there. His perception of this Will can make it
real to YOU because He is in your mind, and therefore He IS your
reality. If, then, His perception of your mind brings its reality to
YOU, He IS teaching you what you are.

The only source of fear in this whole process can ONLY be what you think
you LOSE. Yet it is only what the Holy Spirit sees that you can possibly
HAVE. We have emphasized many times that the Holy Spirit will never call
upon you to sacrifice ANYTHING. But if you ask the sacrifice of reality
OF yourself, the Holy Spirit MUST remind you that this is not God’s Will
BECAUSE it is not yours. There is NO DIFFERENCE between your will and
God’s. If you did not have split minds, you would recognize that willing
is salvation BECAUSE it is communication. It is impossible to
communicate in alien tongues. You and your Creator can communicate
through creation because that, and ONLY that, IS your joint Will.

Divided wills do not communicate because they speak for different things
TO THE SAME MIND. This loses the ability to communicate simply because
confused communication does not mean ANYTHING. A message cannot be said
to be communicated UNLESS it makes sense. How sensible can your messages
be when you ask for what you do NOT want? Yet as long as you are AFRAID
of your will, this is precisely what you WILL ask for. You may insist
that the Holy Spirit does not answer you, but it might be wiser to
consider the kind of ASKER you are.

You do NOT ask only for what you want. This is SOLELY because you are
afraid you might RECEIVE it, AND YOU WOULD. That is really why you
persist in asking the teacher who could not possibly TEACH you your
will. Of him you can NEVER learn it, and
this gives you the illusion of safety. Yet you cannot be safe FROM
truth, but only IN it. Reality is the ONLY safety. Your will is your
salvation BECAUSE it is the same as God’s. The separation is nothing more
than the belief that it is DIFFERENT.

No mind can believe that its will is STRONGER than God’s. If, then, a
mind believes that ITS will is different from His, it can only decide
either that there IS no God or that GOD’S WILL IS FEARFUL. The former
accounts for the atheist and the latter for the martyr. Martyrdom takes
many forms, the category including all doctrines which hold that God
demands sacrifices of ANY kind. Either basic type of insane decision
will induce panic because the atheist believes he is alone, and the
martyr believes that God is crucifying him. Both really fear abandonment
and retaliation, but the atheist is more reactive against abandonment,
and the martyr against retaliation.

The atheist maintains that God has left him, but he does not care. He
will, however, become very fearful, and hence very angry, if anyone
suggests that God has not left him. The martyr, on the other hand, is
more aware of guilt, and believing that punishment is inevitable,
attempts to teach himself to LIKE it. The truth is, very simply, that
no-one wants EITHER abandonment OR retaliation. Many people SEEK both,
but it is still true that they do not WANT them. Can you ask the Holy
Spirit for “gifts” such as these, and actually expect to RECEIVE them?
He cannot make you want something you do NOT want. When you ask the
Universal Giver for what you do not want, you are asking for what CANNOT
be given BECAUSE IT WAS NEVER CREATED. It was never created because it
was never your will for YOU.

Ultimately everyone must remember the Will of God, because ultimately
everyone must recognize HIMSELF. This recognition IS the recognition
that HIS WILL AND GOD’S ARE ONE. In the presence of truth there are NO
unbelievers and NO sacrifices. In the security of reality, fear is
totally meaningless. To deny what IS can only SEEM to be fearful. Fear
cannot be real without a cause, and God is the ONLY Cause. God is Love,
and you DO want Him. This IS your will. Ask for this and you WILL be
answered because you will be asking only for what BELONGS to you.

When you ask the Holy Spirit for what would hurt you, He cannot answer
because NOTHING can hurt you, AND SO YOU ARE ASKING FOR NOTHING. ANY
desire which stems from the ego IS a desire for nothing, and to ask for
it is NOT A REQUEST. It is merely a denial in the FORM of a request. The
Holy Spirit is not concerned with form at all, being aware only of
MEANING. The ego cannot ask the Holy Spirit for ANYTHING because there is
COMPLETE COMMUNICATION FAILURE between them. Yet YOU can ask for
EVERYTHING of the Holy Spirit because YOUR requests are real, being of
your will. Would the Holy Spirit deny the Will of God?  And could He
fail to recognize it in His Sons?

The energy which you withdraw from creation you expend on fear. This is
not because your energy is limited, but because YOU HAVE LIMITED IT. You
do not recognize the enormous waste of energy which you expend in
denying truth. What would you say of someone who persisted in attempting
the impossible, believing that to ACHIEVE it is SUCCESS? The belief that
you MUST have the impossible in order to be happy is totally at variance
with the principle of creation. God COULD not will that happiness
DEPENDED on what you could never HAVE.

The fact that God is Love does not require belief, but it DOES require
acceptance. It is indeed possible for you to DENY facts, although it is
impossible for you to CHANGE them. If you hold your hands over your
eyes, you will NOT see because you are interfering with the laws of
seeing. If you deny love, you will NOT know it because your cooperation
is THE LAW OF ITS BEING. You cannot change laws you did not make, and
the laws of happiness were created FOR you, not BY you.

Attempts of any kind to deny what IS are fearful, and if they are
strong, they WILL induce panic. Willing AGAINST reality, though
impossible, can be MADE into a very persistent goal EVEN THOUGH YOU DO
NOT WANT IT. But consider the result of this strange decision. You are
DEVOTING your mind to what you do not want. How real can this DEVOTION
be? If you do not want it, it was never created. If it was never
created, it is nothing. Can you REALLY devote yourself to nothing?

God in His devotion to you created you devoted to EVERYTHING, and GAVE
you what you are devoted to. Otherwise,
you would not have been created perfect. Reality IS everything, and
therefore you have everything BECAUSE you are real. You cannot make the
unreal because the ABSENCE of reality is fearful, and fear cannot BE
created. As long as you believe that fear is possible, YOU WILL NOT
CREATE. Opposing orders of reality MAKE REALITY MEANINGLESS, and reality
IS meaning.

Remember, then, that God’s Will is ALREADY possible, and nothing else
will EVER be. This is the simple acceptance of reality because only this
IS real. You cannot DISTORT reality and KNOW WHAT IT IS. And if you DO
distort reality, you will experience anxiety, depression and ultimately
panic because you are trying to MAKE yourself unreal. When you feel these
things, do not try to look BEYOND yourself for truth, for truth can only
be WITHIN you. Say, therefore,

> *“Christ is in me and where He is God must be, for Christ is part of
> Him.”*

