---
chapter: Two
ctitle: The Illusion of Separation
title: The Meaning of the Last Judgement
ref: T2.5
---

The Last Judgement is one of the greatest threat concepts in man’s
perception. This is only because he does not understand it. Judgement is
not an essential attribute of God. Man brought judgement into being only
because of the separation. After the separation, however, there WAS a
place for judgement as one of the many learning devices which had to be
built into the overall plan. Just as the separation occurred over many
millions of years, the Last Judgement will extend
over a similarly long period, and perhaps an even longer one. Its length
depends, however, on the effectiveness of the present speed-up.

We have frequently noted that the miracle is a device for shortening but
not abolishing time. If a sufficient number of people become truly
miracle-minded quickly, the shortening process can be almost
immeasurable. It is essential, however, that these individuals free
themselves from fear sooner than would ordinarily be the case, because
they must emerge from the conflict if they are to bring peace to other
minds.

The Last Judgement is generally thought of as a procedure undertaken by
God. Actually it will be undertaken by man, with my help. It is a Final
Healing, rather than a meting out of punishment, however much man may
think that punishment is deserved. Punishment is a concept in TOTAL
opposition to right-mindedness. The aim of the Last Judgement is to
RESTORE right-mindedness to man.

The Last Judgement might be called a process of right evaluation. It
simply means that finally all men will come to understand what is worthy
and what is not. After this, their ability to choose can be directed
reasonably. Until this distinction is made, however, the vacillations
between free and imprisoned will cannot BUT continue. The first step
toward freedom MUST entail a sorting out of the false from the true. This
is a process of division only in the constructive sense, and reflects
the true meaning of the Apocalypse. Man will ultimately look upon his
own creations and will to preserve only what is good, just as God
Himself looked upon what He had created and knew that it WAS good.

At this point, the will can begin to look with love on its own creations
because of their great worthiness. The mind will inevitably disown its
miscreations which, without the mind’s belief, will no longer exist. The
term “Last Judgement” is frightening not only because it has been
falsely projected onto God, but also because of the association of
“last” with death. This is an outstanding example of upside-down
perception. Actually, if the meaning of the Last Judgement is
objectively examined, it is quite apparent that it is really the doorway
to life.

No-one who lives in fear is really alive. His own last judgement
cannot be directed toward himself because he is not his own creation. He
can, however, apply it meaningfully and at ANY time to everything he has
created, and retain in his memory ONLY what is good. This is what his
right-mindedness cannot BUT dictate. The purpose of time is solely to
“give him time” to achieve this judgement. It is his own perfect
judgement of his own creations. When everything he retains is loveable,
there IS no reason for fear to remain with him. This IS his part in the
Atonement.

