---
chapter: Five
ctitle: Healing and Wholeness
title: The Guide to Salvation
ref: T5.4
---

The way to learn to know your brother is by perceiving the Holy Spirit
in him. We have already said that the Holy Spirit is the bridge or
thought-transfer of perception to knowledge, so we can use the terms as
if they were related because, in His mind, they ARE. The relationship
MUST be in His mind because, unless it were, the separation between the
two ways of thinking would not be open to healing. He is part of the
Holy Trinity because His mind is partly yours and also partly God’s. This
needs clarification, not in statement since we have said it before, but
in EXPERIENCE.

The Holy Spirit is the IDEA of healing. Being thought, the idea GAINS AS
IT IS SHARED. Being the Call FOR God, it is also the idea OF God. Since
YOU are part of God, it is also the idea of YOURSELF, as well as of all
the parts of God. The idea of the Holy Spirit shares the property of
other ideas because it follows the laws of the Universe of which it is a
part. Therefore, it is strengthened by
being given away. It increases in YOU as you give it to your brothers.
Since thoughts do not have to be conscious to exist, your brother does
not have to be aware of the Holy Spirit, either in himself or in you,
for this miracle to occur.

Your brother may have dissociated the Call for God, just as YOU have.
The dissociation is healed in BOTH of you as YOU become aware of the
Call for God in him, and thus acknowledge its BEING. There are two ways
of seeing your brother which are diametrically opposed to each other.
They must both be in YOUR mind because YOU are the perceiver. They must
also be in HIS because you are perceiving HIM. See him through the Holy
Spirit in HIS mind, and you will recognize Him in YOURS. What you
acknowledge in your brother you ARE acknowledging in yourself, and what
you share you strengthen.

The Voice of the Holy Spirit IS weak in you. That is why you MUST share
it. It must be INCREASED in strength before YOU can hear it. It is
impossible to hear it in yourself while it is so weak in your OWN mind.
It is not weak in itself, but it IS limited by your unwillingness to
hear it. Will itself is an idea. And is therefore strengthened by being
shared. If you make the mistake of looking for the Holy Spirit in
yourself alone, your meditations will frighten you because, by ADOPTING
the ego’s viewpoint, you are undertaking an ego-alien journey with the
ego as GUIDE. This is BOUND to produce fear.

Delay is of the ego because time is ITS concept. Delay is obviously a
time idea. Both time and delay are meaningless in eternity. We have said
before that the Holy Spirit is God’s ANSWER to the ego. Everything of
which the Holy Spirit reminds you is in direct opposition to the ego’s
notions because true and false perceptions are THEMSELVES opposed. The
Holy Spirit has the task of UNDOING what the ego has made. He undoes it
in the same realm of discourse in which the ego itself operates, or the
mind would be unable to understand the change.

We have repeatedly emphasized that one level of the mind is not
understandable to another. So it is with the ego and the Soul; with time
and eternity. Eternity is an idea of God, so the Soul understands it
perfectly. Time is a belief of the ego, so the lower mind, which IS
the ego’s domain, accepts it without question. The only aspect of time
which is really eternal is NOW. That is what we really mean when we say
that “now is the only time.” The literal nature of this statement does
not mean anything to the ego, which interprets it, at best, to mean
“don’t worry about the future.” That is not what it really means at all.

The Holy Spirit is the Mediator between the interpretations of the ego
and the knowledge of the Soul. His ability to deal with symbols enables
Him to work AGAINST the ego’s beliefs in its own language. His equal
ability to look BEYOND symbols into eternity also enables Him to
understand the laws of God, for which He speaks. He can thus perform the
function of REINTERPRETING what the ego makes, NOT by destruction, but
by UNDERSTANDING. Understanding is light, and light leads to
knowledge. The Holy Spirit is IN light because He is in you who ARE
light, but you yourselves do not know this. It is therefore the task of
the Holy Spirit to re-interpret YOU on behalf of God.

You cannot understand yourselves alone. This is because you have no
meaning APART from your rightful place in the Sonship, and the rightful
place of the Sonship in God. This is your life, your eternity and
YOURSELF. It is of this that the Holy Spirit reminds you. It is this
that the Holy Spirit SEES. This vision invariably frightens the ego
because it is so calm. Peace is the ego’s greatest enemy because,
according to ITS interpretation of reality, war is the guarantee of its
survival. The ego becomes strong in strife. If you believe there IS
strife, you will react viciously because the idea of danger has entered
your mind. The idea itself IS an appeal to the ego.

The Holy Spirit is as vigilant as the ego to the call of danger,
opposing it with His strength just as the ego WELCOMES it with all its
might. The Holy Spirit counters this welcome by welcoming peace. Peace
and eternity are as closely related as are time and war. Perception as
well as knowledge derives meaning from relationships. Those which you
accept are the foundations of your beliefs. The separation is merely
another term for a split mind. It was not an act, but a THOUGHT.
Therefore, the idea of separation can be given away, just as the idea of
unity can. Either way, the idea will be strengthened IN THE MIND OF THE
GIVER.

The ego is the symbol of separation, just as the Holy Spirit is the
symbol of peace. What you perceive in others you are strengthening in
YOURSELF. You let your mind misperceive, but the Holy Spirit lets your
mind reinterpret its own misperceptions. The Holy Spirit is the perfect
teacher. He uses only what your minds ALREADY understand to teach you
that you do NOT understand it. The Holy Spirit can deal with an
unwilling learner without going counter to his will because part of his
will IS still for God. Despite the ego’s attempts to conceal this part
it is still much stronger than the ego, even though the ego does not
recognize it. The Holy Spirit recognizes it perfectly because it is His
own dwelling place, or the place in the mind where He is at home.

YOU are at home there, too, because it is a place of peace and peace is
of God. You who are part of God are not at home EXCEPT in His peace. If
peace is eternal, you are at home only in eternity. The ego made the
world as IT perceives it, but the Holy Spirit, the RE-INTERPRETER of
what the ego made, sees it only as a teaching device for bringing you
home. The Holy Spirit must perceive time and re-interpret it into the
timeless. The mind must be led into eternity THROUGH time because,
having made time, it is capable of perceiving its opposite.

The Holy Spirit must work through opposites because He must work with
and for a mind that IS in opposition. Correct and learn, and be open to
learning. You have NOT made truth, but truth can still set you free.
Look as the Holy Spirit looks and understand as He understands. His
understanding looks back to God in remembrance of me. He is in Holy
Communion always, and He is part of YOU. He is your Guide to salvation
because He holds the remembrance of things past and to come. He holds
this gladness gently in your minds, asking only that you INCREASE it in
His name by sharing it to increase His joy in YOU.

