---
chapter: Five
ctitle: Healing and Wholeness
title: The Voice for God
ref: T5.3
---

It is possible, even in this world, to hear ONLY that voice and no
other. It takes effort and great willingness to learn. It is the final
lesson that I learned, and God’s Sons are as equal as learners as they
are as Souls. The Voice of the Holy Spirit IS the call to Atonement, or
the restoration of the integrity of the mind. When the Atonement is
complete and the whole Sonship is healed, there will be no call to
return, but what God creates is eternal. The Holy Spirit will remain
with the Sons of God, to bless THEIR creations, and keep them in the
light of joy.

You ARE the Kingdom of Heaven, but you have let the belief in darkness
enter your minds, and so you need a new light. The Holy Spirit is the
radiance that you must let banish the idea of darkness. His is the glory
before which dissociation falls away, and the Kingdom of Heaven breaks
through into its own. Before the separation you did not need
guidance. You KNEW as you will know again, but as you do NOT know now.
God does not guide because he
can share only perfect knowledge. Guidance is evaluative because it
implies that there is a RIGHT way and also a WRONG way, one to be chosen
and the other to be avoided. By choosing one, you give up the other.

This IS a conflict state. It MEANS that knowledge has been lost because
knowledge is sure. God is not in you in a literal sense; YOU are part of
HIM. When you chose to leave Him, He gave you a Voice to speak FOR Him
because He could no longer share His knowledge with you without
hindrance. Direct communication was broken because you had made another
voice through another will. The Holy Spirit calls you both to remember
and to forget. You have chosen to be in a state of opposition, in which
opposites are possible. As a result, there ARE choices which you must
make. In the holy state, the will is free in the sense that its CREATIVE
power is unlimited, but choice itself is meaningless.

Freedom to choose is the same POWER as freedom to create, but its
APPLICATION is different. Choosing MEANS divided will. The Holy Spirit
is one way of choosing. This way is in you because there is also ANOTHER
way. God did not leave His Children comfortless, even though they chose
to leave Him. The voice they put in their minds was NOT the voice of His
Will, for which the Holy Spirit speaks. The call to return is stronger
than the call to depart, but it speaks in a different way.

The Voice of the Holy Spirit does not command because it is incapable of
arrogance. It does not demand because it does not seek control. It does
not overcome because it does not attack. It merely REMINDS. It is
compelling only because of what it reminds you OF. It brings to your
mind the OTHER way, remaining quiet even in the midst of the turmoil you
have made for yourselves. The Voice for God is always quiet because it
speaks of peace. Yet peace is stronger than war because it heals. War is
division, not increase. No-one gains from strife.

“What profiteth it a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own
Soul?” That means that if he listens to the wrong voice, he has LOST
SIGHT of his Soul. He CANNOT lose it, but he CAN not know it. It is
therefore LOST TO HIM until he chooses right. The Holy Spirit is your
Guide in choosing. He is the part of your mind which ALWAYS speaks for
the right choice because He speaks for
God. He is your remaining communication with God, which you can
interrupt but cannot destroy.

The Holy Spirit is the way in which God’s Will can be done on earth as
it is in Heaven. Both Heaven and earth are in YOU because the call of
both is in your will, and therefore in your mind. The Voice for God comes
from your own altars to Him. These altars are not things; they are
DEVOTIONS. Yet you have other devotions now. Your divided devotion has
given you the two voices, and you must choose at which altar you will to
serve. The call you answer now IS an evaluation because it is a
DECISION. The decision itself is very simple. It is made on the basis of
which call is worth more to you.

My mind will always be like yours because we were created as equals. It
was only my DECISION that gave me all power in Heaven and earth. My only
gift to you is to help you make the same decision FOR YOURSELF. The will
for this decision is the will to SHARE it because the decision itself IS
the decision to share. It is MADE BY GIVING, and is therefore the ONE
act of mind that resembles true creation. You understand the role of
“models” in the learning process, and the importance of the models you
value and choose to follow in determining what you will to learn. I am
your model for decision. By deciding for God I showed you that this
decision CAN be made, and that YOU can make it.

I promised you that the mind that made the decision for me is also in
YOU, and that you can let it change you just as it changed me. This mind
is unequivocal because it hears only ONE voice and answers in only ONE
way. You are the light of the world with me. Rest does not come from
sleeping but from waking. The Holy Spirit is the call to awake and be
glad. The world is very tired because it IS the idea of weariness. Our
task is the joyous one of waking it to the Call for God. Everyone will
answer the Call of the Holy Spirit, or the Sonship cannot be as one.
What better vocation could there be for any part of the Kingdom than to
restore it to the perfect integration that can make it whole?

Hear only this through the Holy Spirit within you, and teach your
brothers to listen as I am teaching you. When you are tempted by the
wrong voice, call on me to remind you how to heal by sharing my decision
AND MAKING IT STRONGER. As we share this goal
we increase its power to attract the whole Sonship, and to bring it back
into the Oneness in which it was created. Remember that “yoke” means
“join together” and “burden” means message. Let us reconsider the
Biblical statement “my yoke is easy and my burden light” in this way;
let us join together, for my message is Light.

I came into your minds because you had grown vaguely aware of the fact
that there IS another way, or another Voice. Having given this
invitation to the Holy Spirit, I could come to provide the model for HOW
TO THINK. Psychology has become the study of BEHAVIOR, but no-one denies
the basic law that behavior is a response to MOTIVATION, and motivation
is will. I have enjoined you to behave as I behaved, but we must respond
to the same mind to do this. This mind is the Holy Spirit,Whose will is
for God always. He teaches you how to keep me as the model for your
thought, and to behave like me as a result.

The power of our joint motivation is beyond belief but NOT beyond
accomplishment. What we can accomplish together HAS no limits because
the Call for God IS the call to the unlimited. Child of God, my message
is for YOU, to hear and give away as you answer the Holy Spirit within
you.

