---
chapter: Five
ctitle: Healing and Wholeness
title: The Mind of the Atonement
ref: T5.2
---

God honored even the miscreations of His Children because they had made
them, but He also blessed them with a way of thinking that could raise
their perceptions until they became so lofty that they could reach
almost back to Him. The Holy Spirit is the Mind of the Atonement. It
represents a state of mind that comes close enough to One-Mindedness
that transfer to it is at last possible. Transfer depends on common
elements in the old learning and the new situation to which it is
transferred. Perception is not knowledge, but it can be transferred TO
knowledge, or CROSS OVER into it. It might even be more helpful here to
use the literal meaning of “carried” over, since the last step is taken
by God.

The Holy Spirit, the shared Inspiration of all the Sonship, induces a
kind of perception in which many elements are like those in the Kingdom
of Heaven itself.

<div markdown="1" class="indent">
First, its universality is perfectly clear, and no-one who receives it
could ever believe for one instant that sharing it involves anything
BUT gain.

Second, it is incapable of attack, and is therefore truly open. This
means that, although it does not engender knowledge, it does not
OBSTRUCT it in any way. There is a point at which sufficient
quantitative changes produce real qualitative differences. The next
point requires real understanding because it is the point at which the
shift occurs:

Finally, it points the way BEYOND the healing which it brings, and
leads the mind beyond its own integration into the paths of creation.
</div>

Healing is not creating; it is reparation. The Holy Spirit promotes
healing by looking BEYOND it, to what the Children of God were before
healing was needed, and will be when they have BEEN healed. This
alteration of the time sequence should be quite familiar because it is
very similar to the shift in time perception which the miracle
introduces. The Holy Spirit is the MOTIVATION for miracle-mindedness;
the will to HEAL the separation by letting it go. This will is IN you
because God placed it in your mind, and
although you can keep it asleep, you cannot obliterate it.

God Himself keeps this will alive by transmitting it from His Mind to
yours as long as there is time. It is partly His and partly yours. The
miracle itself is just this fusion or union of will between Father and
Son. The Holy Spirit is the spirit of joy. He is the Call to return with
which God blessed the minds of His separated Sons. This is the vocation
of the mind. The mind had no calling until the separation because,
before that, it had only BEING, and would not have understood the call
to right thinking. The Holy Spirit was God’s Answer to the separation,
the means by which the Atonement could repair until the whole mind
returned to creating.

The Atonement and the separation began at the same time. When man made
the ego, God placed in him the call to joy. This call is so strong that
the ego always dissolves at its sound. That is why you can choose to
listen to two voices within you. One you made yourself, and that one is
not of God. But the other is given you BY God,Who asks you only to
listen to it. The Holy Spirit is in you in a very literal sense. His is
the Voice that calls you back to where you were before, and will be
again.

