---
chapter: Five
ctitle: Healing and Wholeness
title: Time and Eternity
ref: T5.7
---

The CONTINUING will to remain separated is the only possible reason for
continuing guilt feelings. We have said this before, but we did not
emphasize the destructive results of this decision at that time. ANY
decision of the mind will affect both behavior AND experience. What you
will, you EXPECT. This is not delusional. Your mind DOES create your
future, and it can turn it back to full creation at any minute, IF IT
ACCEPTS THE ATONEMENT FIRST. It will also turn back to full creation the
instant it has done so. Having given up its thought disorder, the proper
ordering of thought becomes quite apparent.

God in His knowledge is not waiting, but His Kingdom is bereft while YOU
wait. All the Sons of God are waiting for your return, just as YOU are
waiting for THEIRS. Delay does not matter in eternity, but it IS tragic
in time. You have elected to be in time rather than eternity, and have
therefore changed your belief in your status. Yet your election
is both free and alterable. You do not belong in time. Your place is
ONLY in eternity, where God Himself placed you forever.

Guilt feelings are the PRESERVERS of time. They induce fears of future
retaliation or abandonment, and thus ensure that the future will remain
like the past. This is the ego’s continuity, and gives it a false sense
of security through the belief that you cannot escape from it. But you
can and MUST. God offers you the continuity of eternity in exchange.
When you choose to make this exchange, you will simultaneously exchange
guilt for joy, viciousness for love, and pain for peace. My role is only
to unchain your will and make it free. Your ego cannot accept this
freedom, and will oppose your free decision at every possible moment and
in every possible way. And as its maker you recognize what it can do
because you GAVE it the power to do it.

The mind does indeed know its power, because the mind does indeed know
God. Remember the Kingdom always, and remember that you who are part of
the Kingdom CANNOT be lost. The mind that was in me IS in you, for God
creates with perfect fairness. Let the Holy Spirit remind you always of
His fairness, and let me teach you how to share it with your brothers.
How else can the chance to claim it for yourself be given you? What you
do not understand is that the two voices speak for different
interpretations of the same thing simultaneously, or almost
simultaneously, for the ego always speaks first. Alternate
interpretations were unnecessary until the first one was made, and
speaking itself was unnecessary before the ego was made.

The ego speaks in judgement and the Holy Spirit reverses its decisions,
much as the Supreme Court has the power to reverse the lower courts’
decisions about the laws of this world. The ego’s decisions are ALWAYS
wrong because they are based on a complete fallacy which they were made
to uphold. NOTHING the ego perceives is interpreted correctly. Not only
does it cite Scripture for its purpose but it even interprets Scripture
as a witness for itself. The Bible is a fearful thing to the ego because
of its prejudiced judgement. Perceiving it as fearful, it interprets it
fearfully. Having made YOU afraid, you do not appeal to the Higher Court
because you believe its judgement would be AGAINST you.

We need cite only a few examples to see how the ego’s
interpretations have misled you. A favorite ego quotation is “As ye sow,
so shall ye reap.” Another is “Vengeance is mine, sayeth the Lord.”
Still another is “I will visit the sins of the father unto the third and
fourth generation,” and also “The wicked shall perish.”There are many
others, but if you will let the Holy Spirit re-interpret these in His
own light, they will suffice.

“As ye sow, so shall ye reap” merely means that what you believe to be
worth cultivating you will cultivate in yourself. Your judgement of what
is worthy MAKES it worthy for you. “Vengeance is mine, sayeth the Lord”
is easily explained if you remember that ideas increase only by being
shared. This quotation therefore emphasizes the fact that vengeance
CANNOT be shared. Give it therefore to the Holy Spirit, Who will undo it
in you because it does not belong in your mind, which is part of God.

“I will visit the sins of the fathers unto the third and fourth
generation,” as interpreted by the ego, is particularly vicious. It is
used, in fact, as an attempt to guarantee its survival beyond itself.
Actually, all the quotation means is that the Holy Spirit, in later
generations, retains the power to interpret CORRECTLY what former
generations have thought, and thus release THEIR thoughts from the
ability to produce fear anywhere in the Sonship. “The wicked shall
perish” is merely a statement of fact, if the word “perish” is properly
understood. Every loveless thought MUST be undone. Even the word
“undone” is fearful to the ego, which interprets “I am undone” as “I am
destroyed.”

The ego will NOT be destroyed because it is part of your thought, but
because it is uncreative, and therefore unsharing, it WILL be
re-interpreted entirely, to release you from fear. The part of your
thought which you have given to the ego will merely return to the
Kingdom where your whole mind BELONGS. The ego is a form of arrest, but
arrest is merely delay. It does NOT involve the concept of punishment,
although the ego welcomes that interpretation. You CAN delay the
completion of the Kingdom, but you CANNOT introduce the concept of
assault into it.

When I said,“I am come as a light into the world,” I surely came to
share the light with you. Remember the symbolic reference we made before
to the ego’s dark glass, and remember also that we said,
“Do not look there.” It is still true that “where you look to find
yourself is up to you.”The Higher Court will NOT condemn you. It will
merely dismiss the case against you. There can BE no case against a Child
of God, and every witness to guilt in God’s creations is bearing false
witness to God Himself.

Appeal everything you believe gladly to God’s Own Higher Court because
it speaks for Him, and therefore speaks truly. It will dismiss the case
against you however carefully YOU have built it. The case may be
foolproof, but it is NOT God-proof. The Voice for God will not hear it
at all because He can only witness truly. His verdict will always be
“Thine is the Kingdom” because He was GIVEN you to remind you of what
you are.

Your patience with each other is your patience with yourselves. Is not a
Child of God WORTH patience? I have shown you infinite patience because
my will IS that of our Father, from Whom I learned of infinite patience.
His Voice was in me as it is in you, speaking for patience towards the
Sonship in the Name of its Creator. What you need to learn now is that
only infinite patience CAN produce immediate effects. This is the way in
which time is exchanged for eternity. Infinite patience calls upon
infinite love, and by producing results NOW it renders time unnecessary.

To say that time is temporary is merely redundant. We have repeatedly
said that time is a learning device which will be abolished when it is
no longer useful. The Holy Spirit,Who speaks for God in time, also knows
that time is meaningless. He reminds you of this in every passing moment
of time because it is His special function to return you to eternity,
and remain to bless YOUR creations there. He is the only blessing you
can truly give because He is so truly blessed, and because He has been
given you so freely by God, you must give Him as you received Him.

