---
chapter: Five
ctitle: Healing and Wholeness
title: Healing as Joining
ref: T5.1
---

Healing is an act of thought by which two minds perceive their oneness
and become glad. This gladness calls to every part of the Sonship to
rejoice with them, and lets God Himself go out into them and through
them. Only the healed mind can experience revelation with lasting effect
because revelation is an experience of pure joy. If you do not choose to
be wholly joyous, your mind cannot HAVE what it does not choose to BE.
Remember that the Soul knows no difference between “being” and “having.”
The higher mind thinks according to the laws which the Soul obeys, and
therefore honors only the laws of God. To Him, getting is meaningless and
giving is all. Having everything, the Soul HOLDS everything BY giving
it, and thus creates as the Father created.

If you think about it, you will see that, while this kind of thinking is
totally alien to having THINGS, even to the lower mind it is quite
comprehensible in connection with IDEAS. If you share a physical
possession, you DO divide its ownership. If you share an idea, however,
you do NOT lessen it. ALL of it is still yours, although all of it has
been given away. Further, if the person to whom you give it accepts it
as HIS, he reinforces it in YOUR mind, and thus INCREASES it. If you can
accept the concept that the world IS one of ideas, the whole belief in
the false association which the ego makes between giving and LOSING is
gone.

Let us start our process of re-awakening with just a few simple
concepts:

> *“Thoughts INCREASE by being given away.*
>
> *The more who believe in them, the STRONGER they become. EVERYTHING is
> an idea.*
>
> *How, then, is it possible that giving and losing CAN be meaningfully
> associated?”*

This is the invitation to the Holy Spirit. I told you that I could reach
up and bring the Holy Spirit down to you, but I can bring Him to you
ONLY at your own invitation. The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your
own right mind. He was also mine. The Bible says, “May the mind be in
you that was also in Christ Jesus,” and uses this as a BLESSING. It is
the blessing of miracle-mindedness. It asks that you may think as I
thought, joining with me in Christ-thinking.

The Holy Spirit is the only part of the Holy Trinity which is symbolic.
He is referred to in the Bible as the Healer, the Comforter, and the
Guide. He is also described as something “separate,” apart from the
Father and from the Son. I myself said, “If I go I will send you another
comforter, and He will abide with you. ”The Holy Spirit is a difficult
concept to grasp precisely because it IS symbolic, and therefore open to
many different interpretations. As a man and as one of God’s creations,
my right thinking, which came from the Universal Inspiration which IS
the Holy Spirit, taught me first and foremost that this Inspiration is
for all. I could not have It myself WITHOUT knowing this.

The word “know” is proper in this context, because the Holy Inspiration
is so close to knowledge that It calls it forth; or better, allows it to
come. We have spoken before of the higher, or the “true” perception,
which is so close to truth that God Himself can flow across the little
gap. Knowledge is always ready to flow everywhere, but it cannot oppose.
Therefore, you can obstruct it, although you can never lose it. The Holy
Spirit is the Christ Mind Which senses the knowledge that lies beyond
perception. It came into being with the separation as a protection,
inspiring the beginning of the Atonement at the same time. Before that,
there was no need for healing, and no-one was comfortless.

