---
title: Apr 16, 2011
ref: T17.1 Fantasy and Distorted Perception
---

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

I’ve been saying some things for quite awhile, and especially in the last few
weeks, that are causing some distress for long-time students of the *Course*,
because I’ve really been homing in on the fact that there’s only one thing
confronting you—there’s only one thing ever in your face—and that is the
Kingdom of Heaven &hellip; *that is Reality*.

There simply is nothing else existent for you to experience.

And so, I’m unequivocal on this point:  You are either seeing Reality clearly
or you are seeing Reality through a glass darkly.  You are either seeing
Creation truly, or you are seeing Creation—God’s Creation, the only Creation
there is—through misperceptions.

You are never seeing an alternative to Reality or Creation.

There simply is no place for unreality to arise from because there is no
presence other than God and therefore no place—no omnipresence—out of  which
unreality could arise.

If you use the *Course* to justify the idea that everything that you see and
call Creation is an illusion, is to behave in a way that flies right in the
face of God—right in the face of truth—it contradicts Being.

I talk about looking at everything with curiosity to see the more of what God
is Being there, than what you are seeing.  And I do this on purpose because if
you don’t look right where you are—which is the only place you’re able to give
your attention to at the moment—if you don’t give your attention to what’s in
your face with curiosity, you will effectively imprison yourself in your
present perception.  You will deny yourself the experience of God.  You will
block from your experience—from your consciousness—Reality Itself.  And that is
not your Birthright and I will forever continue to say, 

> “*Look at anything and everything that you can with the curiosity to see the
more of what God is Being right there than you’re presently seeing.*”

This is essential, unless you want to ride out the dream &hellip; you know, sort
of go along with the dream.  But if that’s what you want, why would you read
the *Course*?

This chapter is called, “Forgiveness and Healing.”  Well, why use the word,
healing?  Are we going to get so highfalutin and umm &hellip; unrealistic  in our
spirituality that healing is going to begin to mean something different from
what everyone knows healing is, what everyone feels the need for?  Is healing
going to be a clarification in your mind that has nothing to do with your world
or your body?

No!  Stay grounded!  The purpose of this *Course* is not to change the meaning of
words so significantly that they bear little relevance to your daily life.
They are supposed to make a difference in your daily life.  How? &hellip; by giving
you airy-fairy ideas to dream in or dream about without ever correcting
a problem?  If so, then let’s go through the *Course* and remove the word
“correction” wherever it occurs.

Correction is called for.  Healing is expected.  And healing is not going to be
the insane experience of “peace and well-being” when there is injury or illness
present.  That is not spirituality.  That is insanity!

Let’s be clear.  If you don’t know the difference between sanity and insanity
you are lost!  And someone has to tell you the difference.  I’m telling you the
difference.

Now, there are two statements—not in the *Course*, but absolutely true—which
I want to share with you.   The first is this:  All is Mind (with a capital
‘M’).  All is Mind &hellip; from the rolling of worlds in the most subtle ether,
to a potato patch.[^1]   And the other is this:  Mind—again with a capital ‘M’
(and not just because it’s at the beginning of a sentence) but meaning God—Mind
maintains all identities from a blade of grass to a star as distinct and
eternal.[^2]

This is the truth.  And it calls for an appreciation of everything you see in
your world that you probably haven’t brought to it before.  And it is only in
bringing that kind of appreciation to everything in your world which allows you
to have your attention right where Reality is present for you to re-discover
it.

Your willingness to look at the “unlovely thing” is forgiveness.  And when
you’re willing to look at an unlovely thing for a purpose &hellip; to see the more
of what God is being there, than the absence of God that you’re seeing there,
healing is the result.  It’s that simple.  It’s that practical.

And not anyone should be laboring under any other belief that would cause them
to just sit and tolerate the intolerable in the name of *A Course In Miracles* or
the wonderful teaching it presents.

This section is called:

<div class="well book">
FANTASY AND DISTORTED PERCEPTION [^3]

When you maintain that there must be order of difficulty in miracles, all you
mean is that there are some things you would withhold from truth.  You believe
that truth cannot deal with them only because you would KEEP them from truth.
</div> 

Well, I know &hellip; you want me to tell you something practical here?  Okay.
For the last few weeks we’ve talked about the situation in Japan.  We’ve talked
about radioactive energy—radioactive matter.  And we’ve talked about the
ability, the capacity you have to see that ultimately negative aspect of energy
transformed into a totally benign presence of energy.

But it’s very difficult.  You all, as a general thing, believe that radioactive
isotopes are dangerous to your well-being, are dangerous to your life.

Now, when you maintain that there must be order of difficulty in miracles, when
you say, “That’s impossible because radioactive isotopes are truly damaging,
they can kill me if I’m exposed to too much!”  And of course if you say that
about yourself, what are you thinking about the individuals who are fifty miles
away from the energy plant—the atomic energy plant?  You’re condemning yourself
and you’re condemning them.

You’re certainly not practicing the holy instant, where you shut-up, you become
still and in the silence you say, “Father, what is the truth here?”  You see?
A decision is made not to withhold that from the truth.

Listen again:

<div class="well book">
When you maintain that there must be order of difficulty in miracles, all you
mean is that there are some things you would withhold from truth.
</div> 

You see?  “Well, I can’t bring myself to present this to the truth because it’s
not correctable.  It truly is dangerous.  And it will be dangerous, some of it
for so long that nobody in this lifetime will be able to enjoy being on that
land and blah…blah…blah!”  Right?  You’re committed to withhold it from truth
because you are so damned confident about what substance is that you can’t
bring yourself to believe that&hellip; oh, there might be a possible miracle!

But that’s not what the *Course* is about.  Let’s be clear about that.

<div class="well book">
You believe the truth cannot deal with them &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; radioactive isotopes in conjunction with your flesh, your body &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; only because you would KEEP them from truth. Very simply, your lack of
faith in the power that heals all pain &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what do those words mean &hellip; “heals all pain?”  Oh, is it psychological
pain?  Is it an inner grievance that has nothing to do with flesh that is torn,
or a boil that’s about to pop?  It has nothing to do with physical pain?

You better believe it does have to do with it.  Else, throw the book away and
be a mortal &hellip; and stop complaining about it!  And stop pretending to have
a vision larger than the human condition—the human dream.

<div class="well book">
Very simply, your lack of faith in the power that heals all pain arises from
your wish to retain some aspects of reality for fantasy.
</div> 

In other words, you’re gonna keep this little part of the Kingdom of Heaven,
called “radioactive isotopes” and you’re going to invest them in fantasy.
You’re going to say, “This part of the Kingdom of Heaven”—which in actuality
can’t be polarized at all, or dangerous—“this little bit of the Kingdom of
Heaven I’m going to reserve for fantasy, and the fantasy I’m going to apply to
it is that it is radioactive, it is polarized energy that is highly dangerous
to the human condition.  This is the definition I’m going to hold it to.”  You
see?

You’re going &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; to retain some aspects of reality for fantasy.
</div> 

Now, here’s the interesting thing.  This section is called,

<div class="well book">
FANTASY AND DISTORTED PERCEPTION
</div> 

&hellip; as though they’re two different things.  And they are.  Fantasy is
something you can entertain all by yourself.  You can fantasize to your heart’s
delight.  But *you cannot have a distorted perception all by yourself*.
A distorted perception comes from your bringing your fantasy to another Brother
or Sister who is willing to share that fantasy with you.  You see?

And the moment the two of you make commitment to that fantasy and deny the
Father as your Source, and deny all of Creation as His, and you usurp it for
your purposes, you become bound to a mutual insanity that is constituted of
distorted perception in which the benign substance of Spirit that is the
Substance of all Creation which is Love embodied, that *that* is something else
entirely, completely opposed to what it truly Is.

Wow!  Whether you believe it or not this is what has happened and this is what
binds you to a human existence that exhibits none of the characteristics of
what a holy Son or Daughter of God would be experiencing.  But of course,
you’ve forgotten who you Are, as we’ve discussed.  And you’re committed to the
fantasy that you have bound Creation to, or bound a small portion of Creation
to.

Now you know, it really doesn’t make a lot of difference whether you talk about
radioactive isotopes or cancer cells, they both seem to have the same capacity
to kill you.   They both seem to have the same intent to kill you.

Is one worse than the other?  Well, not really.

Now, it’s time to begin to have a different experience of Substance.  It’s time
to have a different experience of the Substance of everything in this Universe.
It’s time for you to dare to bring your fantasy to truth instead of bringing
truth to fantasy.  And that’s what this is all about.

Again &hellip;

<div class="well book">
Very simply, your lack of faith in the power that heals all pain arises from
your wish to retain some aspects of reality for fantasy.  If you but realized
what this must do to your appreciation of the whole!
</div> 

Well, it annihilates it.  It makes it impossible for you to have an
appreciation of the whole, because you have radioactive isotopes and you have
cancer cells and any number of other killing things that cause you to lose your
peace.

And you know what?  If you’ve lost your peace, then you’re in fear.  And when
you’re in fear, it becomes almost impossible to be willing to look at the thing
that is causing your fear and choose to bring it to truth.  It becomes
impossible for you to dare to embrace it in any way, even though you are
embracing it to get past the apparently polarized aspects that it is presenting
as a primarily negative aspect that is threatening you.

*Why* do you think you must love your enemies?  Because your enemies are the Sons
and Daughters of God, or aspects of Creation which you are misperceiving and
which your misperceptions are causing you to be defensive against.

You’re never going to be able to discover the more of what God is Being in your
enemy if you are unwilling to bring your attention to your enemy with the
intent not to be sidetracked by his or her presentation, so that you might move
right through it with your intent to see the Presence of God, so that God
presents Himself to you as your conscious experience and causes you to
spontaneously feel and express the joy of the recognition of the Son of God,
your Brother, who is so worthy of your love and who in the midst of your
recognition of his divinity, reveals to  you that you are as divine and
uncovers You to you so that you become joined in that awe.

<div class="well book">
What you reserve unto yourself, you TAKE AWAY from Him Who would release you.
</div> 

Well, Who’s the Him that would release you?  It’s the Holy Spirit—that which is
nothing more than your right Mind.

<div class="well book">
What you reserve unto yourself, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you see? &hellip; “Oh, this little part of the Kingdom Heaven, I’m going to
call it radioactive isotopes.  And I’m going to say that it has polarized
qualities that are dangerous to anything it comes near &hellip;”

You reserve that to yourself.  And you take it &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; AWAY from Him &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the Holy Spirit &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; Who would release you.
</div> 

You take it away from your right Mind which would release you from your, shall
I say, wrong-mindedness—your ignorance.

<div class="well book">
Unless you give it back, it is inevitable that your perspective on reality be
warped and &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what?  Here’s that word “correction” &hellip;

<div class="well book">
 &hellip; uncorrected.

[repeats] Unless you give it back, it is inevitable that your perspective on
reality be warped and uncorrected.
</div> 

So why does it say that?  It says it because correction is called for.  That’s
good news.   But you’re not going to see the correction as an experience as
long as you say, “Well, that’s a material world and it’s illusion and it’s
going to disappear.”  That’s a curse.

There’s no forgiveness in that.  And without forgiveness, without a willingness
to say, “Wait a minute, if there’s something going on there and there’s really
no other power than God, then there’s nothing else to be presenting something
there for me to perceive or misperceive, except God.  And therefore what’s
there has to be essentially Real and benign &hellip; undivided, unpolarized,
incapable of sin, sickness, death &hellip; incapable of decay.  Therefore it would
behoove me, and I’m willing to look at it with real curiosity to see the
divinity that is there.  And I’m going to persist in that until I have the
experience.”

Now if that’s not what *A Course In Miracles* is about, put down the book!  Stop
reading it!  And if you didn’t think that was what the *Course* was about, look
at it again with fresh eyes.

<div class="well book">
As long as you would have it so, so long will the illusion of order of
difficulty in miracles remain with you. For you have ESTABLISHED this order in
reality by giving some of it to one teacher, and some to another. And so you
learn to deal with part of truth in one way, and in another way the other part.
</div> 

You see?  So you use truth as something that you take illusion to for healing,
but another part of truth you use to take to illusion to have illusion
determine what truth is.  You see?

You’re still dealing with truth and you’re still dealing with substance.
You’re still dealing with Reality—the only thing there is, truth and substance
that is Spirit.  But you can misuse truth and you can call Spirit matter—having
none of the characteristics of Reality or its Source, God.

<div class="well book">
To fragment truth is to destroy it by rendering it meaningless.
</div> 

You see?  You can’t use truth as that which you take illusion to for correction
and then use truth as that which you bring to illusion to have illusion
determine what truth is.

<div class="well book">
To fragment truth &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; that way &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; is to destroy it by rendering it meaningless. Orders of reality is
a perspective without understanding, a frame of reference for reality to which
it cannot really BE compared at all.
</div> 

Are you beginning to see here?

The singularity of Being &hellip; the singularity of existence &hellip; the
unpolarized nature of Being, of existence.  This is the truth that you need to
be bringing every aspect of your mentality to, so that your mentality might *be measured against truth and inevitably enlarged*, inevitably made infinite, to
inevitably be corrected so that your sanity returns.

<div class="well book">
Think you that you can bring truth to fantasy, and learn what truth means from
the perspective of illusions?
</div> 

No. And that’s why when something apparently disastrous or very threatening to
your current ignorant mindset occurs, you tend to take your current mindset as
the established order, as the ultimate understanding of Reality.  And so,
although there is an event happening, it becomes modified by your current
determined mindset.  And you become frightened to death.

And that’s not what the *Course* teaches.  And that’s not the appropriate
response.  Because you are the holy Sons and Daughters of God and nothing less,
you never have been.  And what you’re frightened of is a misperception of the
Kingdom of Heaven that couldn’t harm you in any way.  And yes, that means that
at the moment you are experiencing insanity.  But you know what?  Insanity is
corrected by intelligence recognized &hellip; insanity is corrected by
intelligence recognized.

And so, I’m expressing intelligence.  I’m presenting intelligence so that you
might recognize it and therefore abandon your commitment to your ignorance and
dare to, shall I say, climb out of the crab barrel.

Well you know what?  One of the things that you tend to keep from truth is
[chuckles] the idea that there’s an outside to the crab barrel &hellip; you know
&hellip; you tell somebody, “Hey, I’m working on climbing out of the crab barrel.”

And the other person says, “Huh, you fool!  There’s no outside to the crab
barrel.  There’s not even a crab barrel.  It’s just life.  And you are just
going to have to tolerate it.  And you’re just going to suffer through it until
your last day.  You see?  Don’t be foolish.”  You see?

So, Reality has been brought to fantasy and fantasy has been allowed to
determine what Reality is and as a result you deny yourself the possibility of
experiencing a miracle because you won’t think outside the box—you won’t let
your mind move outside the box.

<div class="well book">
Think you that you can bring truth to fantasy, and learn what truth means &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; really means &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; from the perspective of illusions? Truth HAS no meaning in illusion. The
frame of reference for its meaning must be ITSELF.
</div> 

In other words, the frame of reference for truth’s meaning must be truth
itself.  Oh, but that’s outside the crab barrel, isn’t it!  Truth isn’t in the
crab barrel.  It’s not in the illusion.  It’s not in the orphanage.  It’s
outside.

Well, fortunately you know truth is.  You know there is truth, whether you Know
what truth is or not.  You have deeply imbedded in you an undeniable awareness
that there is such a thing as truth &hellip; thank God!

So &hellip;

<div class="well book">
When you try to bring truth to illusions, you are trying to make illusions
REAL, and keep them by JUSTIFYING your belief in them.
</div> 

You see?  You want to bring truth to verify the illusion so that you might keep
the illusion.  You want to bring truth to your endeavor to be an independent
agent—having no Source—thus being totally independent and proud of it.

<div class="well book">
But to give illusions to truth &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; to reverse it &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; is to enable truth to teach that the ILLUSIONS are unreal, and thus
enable you to escape from them &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; uh, actually get outside the crab barrel.

Listen to this:

<div class="well book">
Reserve not one idea aside from truth, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; don’t keep any private idea.  “Well, I hear that radioactive isotopes can
be benign.  And I could believe that maybe if there were too many around me,
I might just be able to come out of it unscathed.  But damn it, don’t test me
on it!”

<div class="well book">
Reserve not one idea aside from truth, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; apart from truth &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; or you establish orders of reality which must imprison you. There IS no
order in reality because EVERYTHING there is true.
</div> 

“Well, everything there is true.  Where?  Where is there?”  It’s here!  If it
isn’t here, the book means nothing.  If it isn’t here, the words mean nothing,
unless in the sweet by-and-by after you die.  Well, if that’s when it’s going
to be true, put the book away and enjoy your mortality.  Engage in all the sin
that you want &hellip; you know?  Live this life to the fullest, on the raw side
&hellip; you know?  Nothing you can do about it except maybe enjoy it to the hilt
because of course, there’s no answer until after you die.

<div class="well book">
There IS no order in reality because EVERYTHING there is true.
</div> 

And there is here.  And so, your task, your *pleasure* will be to be willing to
look at everything with fresh eyes.  I’ve said, with innocent eyes, with
a capacity to see beyond what you’re conditioned to see—a capacity that’s
already there.  Because no matter how much you’ve covered it over, you are the
Son and the Daughter of God.

<div class="well book">
Be willing, then, to give all you have held outside the truth to Him Who KNOWS
the truth, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the Holy Spirit—that which is nothing more than your right Mind— &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; and in Whom all is brought to truth. Be not concerned with anything
except your WILLINGNESS to have this be accomplished.
</div> 

There it is:

<div class="well book">
Be not concerned with anything &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; not the fearsomeness of radio isotopes or cancer or anything else.

<div class="well book">
Be not concerned with anything except your WILLINGNESS to have this be
accomplished.
</div> 

Here’s the insulting part though:

<div class="well book">
HE will accomplish it; NOT you.
</div> 

And that’s the beauty of it.  And that’s the love of it.  And that’s the
infinite invulnerability of you, in it.

You know, I mentioned that sometime in the past, I said, there are two things:
*Wish to see the evidence of Love*, no matter what’s presenting itself.  And wish
to be the presence of Love.  Wish to see the evidence of Love and wish to be
the evidence of Love.  And it’s important.  Which one comes first?  There is an
order to it.

Does the wish to be the evidence of Love come first or the wish to see the
evidence of Love?  I will tell you:  It’s the wish to see the evidence of Love.
The first part of it, the first step of it is, selflessness, gifting your
Brother instead of yourself.

When you wish to see the evidence of Love in your Brother or in anything you
are looking at, you are opening yourself up to the influx of divine clarity.
And when that divine clarity dawns on you, infills you, it inspires you and you
end up involuntarily being the evidence of Love.  And I mean by that, that your
behavior isn’t designed by you to have any particular effect because your
behavior is *beyond your will*.  Joy that exudes from you spontaneously is the
evidence of Love that blesses everyone it falls upon, especially the one whom
you decided not to be the evidence of Love to first—the one who seemed to be
calling for Love.

“Oh, yeah, I’m going to be the evidence to Love for my Brother here.  He really
needs it and I really have it to give it to him.  You know, I’ve been studying
for years, I know the *Course* inside and out.  And I’m going to be the evidence
of Love &hellip;”

Well, bullshit!  You’ve missed the point!  You can’t be the evidence of Love
that way.  You can’t start from yourself and your past.  You have to start from
the innocence of the moment you are in, in which you’re undefended against the
Father’s Perspective, the Father’s Will, which is truly yours.  But when the
Father’s Will dawns upon you, you behave in totally unexpected ways because
you’re not in charge of your behavior any longer.

And it’s a wonderful event that you are joyed in and everyone else is joyed in.
And that’s the way it works.

So &hellip;

<div class="well book">
Be willing, then, to give all you have held outside the truth to Him Who KNOWS
the truth, and in Whom all is brought to truth. Be not concerned with anything
except your WILLINGNESS to have this be accomplished. HE will accomplish it;
NOT you. But forget not this: When you become disturbed and lose your peace of
mind because ANOTHER is attempting to solve his problems through fantasy, you
are refusing to forgive YOURSELF for just this same attempt.
</div> 

Well, what does that mean?  It means that when you find yourself disturbed and
losing your peace because another is attempting to solve his problems through
fantasy, you have decided not to take this presentation and hand it over to
truth for truth to correct.  You would rather have held it yourself for your
purpose.  Your purpose being, that you are going to have a little fit of anger
and get the most out of it that you can, because that’s more important to you.
That’s a self-assertion, isn’t it?  That lets you know that you’re real, that
you really exist.

Expressions of anger always do that.  And that’s the only thing they ever do.
They help put you back in charge in your own mind, because they make you the
most important thing in your mind.  And that makes you feel strengthened and
more present, even though you’ve stepped out of Reality entirely and are
spinning around in this little space of craziness, unconnected with anything
Real and incapable of being the evidence of Love.  Why?  Because you said, “No,
I do not wish to see the evidence of Love.”  There it is!

Again:

<div class="well book">
When you become disturbed and lose your peace of mind because ANOTHER is
attempting to solve his problems through fantasy, you are refusing to forgive
YOURSELF for just this same attempt. And you are holding BOTH of you away from
truth and from salvation.
</div> 

You see?  You keep it all spinning around in this little bit of craziness.

<div class="well book">
&hellip; you are holding BOTH of you away from truth and from salvation.  [But]
&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the word “but” isn’t in here &hellip;

<div class="well book">
[But] As you forgive him, you restore to truth what was denied by BOTH of you.
And you will see forgiveness where you have GIVEN it.
</div> 

Now, you tell me, what’s the difference between looking at your Brother and
forgiving your Brother and having truth restored to both of you?  What’s the
difference between that and looking at a location in Japan, which is overloaded
with radioactivity and radioisotopes that are dangerous, and forgiving that and
seeing correction occur, seeing truth restored?  What is the difference?  What
is the difference between looking at what you call matter and bringing it to
truth, so that truth might reveal to you that it is actually Substance, even
though you’re calling it matter and that Substance in its Reality, in its
only-ness is Spirit—the Substance of God.

What’s the difference?  And in what way is what I’m talking about denying what
the *Course* is saying, by saying, look at matter with the curiosity to see it
begin to behave like Spirit.  There is no difference.  And as long as anyone
maintains that there is a difference the correcting principle of the *Course*
will not function for you, because you are denying the fundamental principle
that is saying one thing:  God is All &hellip; is All &hellip;  is All &hellip; is All
&hellip; is All there is in the radioactive isotope &hellip; is All there is in the
splinter of wood that’s caught in your finger &hellip; is All that there is to my
finger.

Mind maintains all Ideas—from a blade of grass to a star—as distinct and
eternal.  The moment you glimpse the fact that the *Course* is teaching exactly
that, we will all see transformations occurring that everyone deserves to be
experiencing and the *Course* will have fulfilled its purpose.

You don’t live in a frightening world, you live (some of you at the moment) in
a frightening way of looking at the world—an isolated independent way, isolated
from the Father, but joined with Brothers and Sisters in the same mutual
agreement &hellip; a misperception.

And I’m glad to share this news over and over and over until the goodness of
the news begins to register with you and you begin to embrace the *Course* in an
entirely new way and therefore, your world as well.

I love you all, and I look forward to being with you next week.

[^1]: Mary Baker Eddy, Miscellaneous Writings, pg.30
[^2]: Mary Baker Eddy, Science and Health, pg.70

[^3]: Sparkly Book p400 \
    JCIM p168  \
    CIMS p337 \
    Chapter 17 – FORGIVENESS AND THE HOLY RELATIONSHIP \
    First Edition p327, Par.3 \
    Second Edition p351, Par.3

