---
chapter: Sixteen
ctitle: The Forgiveness of Illusions
title: The Magnitude of Holiness
ref: T16.2
---

You still think holiness is difficult because you cannot see how it can
be extended to include everyone. And you have learned that it must
include everyone to BE holy. Concern yourselves not with the extension
of holiness, for the nature of miracles you do not understand. Nor do
YOU do them. It is their extension, far beyond the limits you perceive,
that demonstrates you did NOT do them. Why should you worry how the
miracle extends to all the Sonship when you do not understand the
miracle itself? One attribute is no more difficult to understand than is
the whole. If miracles ARE at all, their attributes would HAVE to be
miraculous, being part of them.

There is a tendency to fragment, and then to be concerned about the
truth of just a little part of the whole. And this is but a way of
avoiding, or LOOKING AWAY from the whole, to what you think you might be
better able to understand. For this is but another way in
which you would still try to keep understanding to YOURSELF. A better
and FAR more helpful way to think of miracles is this:You do not
understand them, either in part OR whole. Yet you have DONE
them. Therefore, your understanding cannot be necessary. Yet it is still
impossible to accomplish what you do not understand. And so there must
be something in you that DOES understand.

To you the miracle CANNOT seem natural because what you have done to
hurt your minds has made them so UNNATURAL that they do not remember
what is natural to them. And when you are TOLD about it, you cannot
understand it. The recognition of the part as whole, and of the whole in
every part, is PERFECTLY natural. For it is the way God thinks, and what
is natural to Him IS natural to you. Wholly natural perception would
show you instantly that order of difficulty in miracles is quite
impossible, for it involves a contradiction of what miracles mean. And
if you could understand their meaning, their attributes could hardly
cause you perplexity.

You HAVE done miracles, but it is quite apparent that you have not done
them alone. You have succeeded whenever you have reached another mind
and JOINED with it. When two minds join as one and share one idea
equally, the first link in the awareness of the Sonship as one has been
made. When you have made this joining, as the Holy Spirit bids you, and
have offered it to Him to use as He knows how, His natural perception of
your gift enables HIM to understand it, and YOU to use His understanding
on your behalf. It is impossible to convince you of the reality of what
has clearly BEEN accomplished through your willingness as long as you
believe that you must understand it, or else it is not real.

You think your lack of understanding is a LOSS to you, and so you are
unwilling to believe that what has happened is true. But can you REALLY
believe that all that has happened, even though you do NOT understand
it, has NOT happened? Yet this is your position. You would have perfect
faith in the Holy Spirit, and in the effects of His teaching, if you
were not afraid to ACKNOWLEDGE what He taught you. For this
acknowledgement means that what has happened you do not understand, but
that you are willing to accept it BECAUSE it has happened.

How can faith in reality be yours while you are bent on making it
unreal? And are you REALLY safer in maintaining the unreality of what
has happened than you would be in joyously accepting it for what it is,
and giving thanks for it? Honor the truth that has been given you, and
be glad you do not understand it. Miracles are natural to God, and to
the One Who speaks for Him. For His task is to translate the miracle
into the knowledge which it represents, and which is lost to you. Let
His understanding of the miracle be enough for you, and do not turn away
from all the witnesses that He has given you to His reality.

No evidence will convince you of the truth of what you do not want. Yet
your relationship with Him IS real, and HAS been demonstrated. Regard
this not with fear, but with rejoicing. The One you called upon IS with
you. Bid Him welcome, and honor His witnesses, who bring you the glad
tidings He has come. It is true, just as you fear, that to acknowledge
Him IS to deny all that you think you know. But it was NEVER true. What
gain is there to you in clinging to it, and denying the evidence for
truth? For you have come too near to truth to renounce it now, and you
WILL yield to its compelling attraction. You can delay this now but only
a little while. The host of God has called to you, and you HAVE heard.
Never again will you be wholly willing not to listen.

This is a year of joy, in which your listening will increase, and peace
will grow with its increase. The power of holiness and the WEAKNESS of
attack have BOTH been brought into awareness. And this has been
accomplished in minds firmly convinced that holiness is weakness, and
attack is power. Should not this be a sufficient miracle to teach you
that your Teacher is NOT of you? But remember also that, whenever you
have listened to His interpretation, the results have brought you joy.
Would you prefer the results of YOUR interpretation, considering
honestly what they have been? God wills you better. Could you not look
with greater charity on whom God loves with perfect love?

Do not interpret AGAINST Godâ€™s Love, for you have many witnesses which
speak of It so clearly that only the blind and deaf could fail to see
and hear them. This year, determine not to deny what has been given you
by God, for that is the only reason He has called to you. His Voice has
spoken clearly, and yet you have so little faith in what you heard
because you have preferred to place still
greater faith in the disaster YOU have made. Today, let us resolve
TOGETHER to accept the joyful tidings that disaster is not real, and
that reality is not disaster.

Reality is safe and sure, and wholly kind to everyone and
everything. There is no greater love than to accept this, and be glad.
For love asks only that you be HAPPY, and will give you everything that
makes for happiness. You have never given any problem to the Holy Spirit
He has not solved for you, nor will you ever do so. You have never tried
to solve anything yourself and been successful. Is it not time you
brought these facts TOGETHER, and made SENSE of them?

This is the year for the APPLICATION of the ideas which have been given
you. For the ideas are mighty forces, to be used and not held idly by.
They have already proved their power sufficiently for you to place your
faith in them, and not in their denial. This year invest in truth, and
let it work in peace. Have faith in what has faith in YOU. Think what
you have REALLY seen and heard, and RECOGNIZE it. Can you be alone with
witnesses like these?

