---
chapter: Sixteen
ctitle: The Forgiveness of Illusions
title: The Reward of Teaching
ref: T16.3
---

You have taught well, and yet you have not learned how to ACCEPT the
comfort of your teaching. If you will consider what you have taught, and
how alien it is to what you thought you knew, you will be compelled to
recognize that your Teacher came from beyond your thought system, and so
could look upon it fairly, and perceive it was untrue. And He must have
done so from the basis of a very different thought system, and one with
NOTHING in common with yours. For certainly what He has taught, and what
you have taught through Him, have nothing in common with what you taught
before He came. And the results have been to bring peace where there was
pain, and suffering has disappeared, to be replaced by joy.

You have taught freedom, but you have not learned how to be free. We
once said, “By their fruits ye shall know them, and they shall know
themselves.” For it is certain that you judge yourself according to your
teaching. The ego’s teaching produces immediate results because its
decisions are immediately accepted as YOUR choice. And this acceptance
means that you are willing to judge yourself accordingly. Cause and
effect are very clear in the ego’s thought system because all
your learning has been directed towards ESTABLISHING the relationship
between them. And would you not have faith in what you have so
diligently taught yourself to believe? Yet remember how much care you
have exerted in choosing its witnesses, and in avoiding those which
spoke for the cause of truth and ITS effects.

Does not the fact that you have not learned what you have taught show
you that you do not perceive the Sonship as one? And does it not also
show you that you do not regard YOURSELF as one? For it is impossible to
teach successfully wholly WITHOUT conviction, and it is equally
impossible that conviction be OUTSIDE of you. You could never have taught
freedom unless you DID believe in it. And it must be that what you taught
came from YOURSELF. And yet, this Self you clearly do not KNOW, and do
not recognize It even though It functions. What functions must be THERE.
And it is only if you deny what it has DONE that you could possibly deny
its presence.

This is a course in how to know yourself. You HAVE taught what you are,
but have not let what you are teach YOU. You have been very careful to
avoid the obvious, and not to see the REAL cause and effect relationship
that is perfectly apparent. Yet within you is EVERYTHING you taught. What
can it be that has NOT learned it? It must be this that is REALLY
outside yourself, not by your own projection, but in TRUTH. And it is
this that you have taken in that is NOT you. What you accept into your
minds does not REALLY change them. Illusions are but beliefs in what is
not there. And the seeming conflict between truth and illusion can only
be resolved by separating yourself from the ILLUSION, and NOT from
truth.

Your teaching has already done this, for the Holy Spirit is part of YOU.
Created by God, He left neither God nor His creation. He is both God AND
you, as you are God and Him together. For God’s answer to the separation
added more to you than you tried to take away. He protected both your
creations and you together, keeping one with you what you would exclude.
And they will take the place of what you took in to replace them. They
are quite real, as part of the Self you do not know. And they
communicate to you through the Holy Spirit, and their power and
gratitude to you for their creation they offer gladly to your teaching
of yourself, who is their home. You who are host to God are also host to
them. For nothing
real has ever left the mind of its creator. And what is not real was
never THERE.

You are not two selves in conflict. What is beyond God? If you who hold
Him and whom He holds ARE the universe, all else must be OUTSIDE, where
NOTHING is. You have taught this, and from far off in the universe, yet
not beyond yourself, the witnesses to your teaching have gathered to
help you learn. Their gratitude has joined with yours and God’s to
strengthen your faith in what you taught. For what you taught is true.
Alone, you stand outside your teaching and APART from it. But WITH them
you must learn that you but taught YOURSELF, and learned from the
conviction you shared with them.

This year you will begin to learn, and make learning commensurate with
teaching. You have chosen this by your own willingness to teach. Though
you seemed to suffer for it, the joy of teaching will yet be yours. For
the joy of teaching is in the LEARNER, who offers it to the teacher in
gratitude, and shares it with him. As you learn, your gratitude to your
Self,Who teaches you what He is, will grow and help you honor Him. And
you will learn His power and strength and purity, and love Him as His
Father does. His Kingdom has no limits and no end, and there is nothing
in Him that is not perfect and eternal. All this is YOU, and nothing
outside of this IS you.

To your most holy Self all praise is due for what you are, and for what
He is Who created you as you are. Sooner or later must everyone bridge
the gap which he imagines exists between his selves. Each one builds
this bridge, which carries him ACROSS the gap as soon as he is willing
to expend some little effort on behalf of bridging it. His little
efforts are powerfully supplemented by the strength of Heaven, and by
the united will of all who make Heaven what it is, being joined within
it. And so the one who would cross over is literally transported there.

Your bridge is builded stronger than you think, and your foot is planted
firmly on it. Have no fear that the attraction of those who stand on the
other side and wait for you will not draw you safely across. For you
WILL come where you would be, and where your Self awaits you.

