---
chapter: Sixteen
ctitle: The Forgiveness of Illusions
title: The Forgiveness of Illusions
ref: T16.0
---

To empathize does not mean to join in SUFFERING, for that is what
you must REFUSE to understand. That is the EGO’S interpretation of
empathy, and is always used to form a special relationship in which the
suffering is shared. The capacity to empathize is very useful to the
Holy Spirit, provided you let Him use it in His way. He does not
understand suffering, and would have you teach it is not UNDERSTANDABLE.
When He relates through you, He does not relate through the ego to
another ego. He does not join in pain, knowing that healing pain is not
accomplished by delusional attempts to enter into it, and lighten it by
sharing the delusion.

The clearest proof that empathy as the ego uses it is destructive lies
in the fact that it is applied only to certain types of problems, and in
certain people. These it selects OUT, and joins with. And it never joins
except to strengthen ITSELF. Make no mistake about this maneuver; the
ego always empathizes to WEAKEN, and to weaken is ALWAYS to attack. You
do not know what empathizing means. Yet of this you may be sure; if you
will merely sit quietly by and let the Holy Spirit relate through you,
you will empathize with STRENGTH, and BOTH of you will gain in strength,
and not in weakness.

Your part is only to remember this; you do not want anything
YOU value to come of the relationship. You will neither to hurt it nor to
heal it in your own way. You do not know what healing is. All you have
learned of empathy is from the PAST. And there is nothing from the past
that you would share, for there is nothing there that you would KEEP. Do
not use empathy to make the past real, and so perpetuate it. Step gently
aside, and let the healing be done FOR you. Keep but one thought in
mind, and do not lose sight of it, however tempted you may be to judge
any situation, and to determine your response BY judging it. Focus your
mind only on this:

> “I am not alone, and I would not intrude the past upon my Guest. I
> have invited Him, and He is here.
>
> I need do nothing except NOT TO INTERFERE.”

