---
title: "In the Beginning"
received: "Unknown"
---

And now, beloved friends, in truth we begin. But what we begin knows no
beginning and can know no end. Indeed, precious friends, you who are the
light shining forever brightly in the heavens of the mind of Christ, I
am with you always. Not because of anything grand that I have
accomplished, but because of the simplicity of truth. You remain as you
are created to be. Yet are you given complete freedom to embrace that
truth or to deny it. And in your moment of denial, in reality you
journey nowhere. You merely entertain something which is impossible.
Therefore, beloved friends, remember well that you are created as the
thought of love in form. You are not the body. You abide not in space
and time. But you are that mind, you are that energy, you are that
intelligence, you are that creativity, you are that power of choice.
That power which alone decides whether you will extend love or project
fear. 

In each moment, then, the choice is between these two poles. Will I use
the infinite power of my own Christed beingness in this moment to extend
love or to project fear? To extend&hellip;or to contract? To receive the
presence of God's love&hellip;or to deny it? The difference between
these choices is, indeed, the distance between heaven and hell. In
reality, then, the world you see about you holds no power. It can
neither add anything to you nor take anything from you. But you are free
to bless the world with all that is given you, or to withhold from the
world what grace has already presented unto you. It is a simple truth
that what you give, you receive. If you would, then, know love, remember
first the loveliness of your being. Choose wisely to give only of your
Self&hellip;with a capital ...and your blessing will enlighten the
world.  And what you give, you will receive.

It is, indeed, with great love&hellip;it is, indeed, with great
humility...that I come forth to abide with you, to make known what is
always occurring. For though you might seem to journey far, in truth
your journeys are not&hellip;for they abide nowhere except within your
own consciousness. I am, indeed, with you always, for I am exactly where
my Father has placed me to be&hellip;in your heart.  As He has placed
each of you within mine. When I once said unto you, "Love one another",
I was referring to that true love which seeks not and demands
not&hellip;which does not require anything from the other, save to ask
for the opportunity to love that one. For in so doing, we remember the
love which has first loved us into existence. And I would beseech you to
truly give yourself permission to learn to radically love, as God loves
you&hellip;to bless all that you see with perfect forgiveness&hellip;and
to extend into the whole of the world perfect freedom. For love does not
demand. Neither does love hold expectation. Love has the power to reside
within its own truth. And without lifting a finger, it will, indeed,
attract the seeker of truth to you. And who is that seeker but the
brother or sister whom you see before you at any given moment? And if
they would discover the way to love in a world that seems to have denied
it, would you not offer unto them the sanctity of a perfect safety, to
be attracted to the love of God that lives and dwells with you?

This requires no activity on your part. It does ask you to use the power
of your attention to remember the presence of love always, and to
receive it deeply and unceasingly into and for yourself. Is it not time
to surrender the dream of the doer and the maker? For many times you
have tried to make your own path to God, and many times you have tried
to make others' paths to God.  And yet I say unto you, if you would love
another in perfect freedom, you will know the truth that sets you free.

In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God. And the Word
was God. And that Word is like a vibration. Imagine striking a crystal
glass in a perfectly silent environment. And the vibration of that sound
begins to radiate outward. And through its radiance does Creation come
into being. That Word goes on eternally and knows neither beginning nor
end. That Word is the very soil from which you have arisen. And that
Word abides within you now. It cannot be taken from you, just as there
is no need for you to protect it or try to save it from being used up. 

Hear then, precious friends, in the beginning only that One is. In this
moment, only that One is. And in your tomorrows, only that One is. I
have come, indeed, unto you through as many voices as I can possibly
find, to remind you of the simplicity that you are Love. That in truth
there is nothing to fear. For what you see around you is but the
projection of the thoughts you have held, the thoughts that (have)
spoken to you and said, "Perhaps I can succeed at separating myself from
reality." Fear not. And why? For whenever fear makes a home in your
mind, it is the reflection of a choice already made to deny the truth of
who you are. Therefore, whenever fear arises, acknowledge what has
already occurred. Release the world from your projections. And make
straight your path by seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven. And the
welcome remembrance of the love that has birthed you?

All that you see arising and passing away before your eyes is but a
moment's dream, because it arises only from the holy mind of God's one
creation&hellip;the Self, the soul, the Christ. What arises and passes
away can never be lost unto you. The eyes of your body cannot show you
the truth. But the eyes of your heart will reveal to you reality.

When next you observe a friend walking away from you, for whatever
reason, remind yourself that they have gone nowhere. You need only love
them, and you are one with them. And if the world is the reflection of
the belief in complexity, then heaven must be exceedingly simple. For
the world is always the exact opposite of the Kingdom of Heaven. And in
that ancient beginning which is now and forever, the truth does remain
true always. Hear this truth.  Embrace this truth. Breathe this truth.
Exude this truth with every thought you think, with every breath you
take, with every gesture that you make.  Resolve, as you move into a new
beginning&hellip;at least, according to your calendar&hellip;that this
year might be a clever device for focusing your attention on the
deliberate decision to make no decision&hellip;until you have returned
to the place of a silent heart that remembers that you are in God, as a
fish is in the sea. And that you asked in truth to do nothing save to
receive that love, that it might of its own accord overflow through you
in a way that blesses this world. And if the world receives it not,
don't be concerned about it. For it is not your task to uplift the
world, but to be uplifted that the world might have the opportunity to
look upon the change that has occurred to one of its members. And if the
world will look upon you as one who has chosen to arise from
death&hellip;which simply means, since death is unreal, to awaken from
the dream of suffering and loss, the dream of the false Self, to awaken
to the reality that only Christ abides&hellip;then perhaps the world can
learn that it can make a new choice. This is the greatest of gifts that
can be given to any soul at any time. Relinquish, then, the ideas you
have held, that by your action someone might be saved. Release from
yourself the burden of healing the sense of separation, that another
might know. And recognize that you are asked only to allow that healing
to be made manifest in you, by gently remembering that you are now that
one.  And that, regardless of all of your attempts to the contrary, you
have never succeeded in proving to God that you are the simple,
depraved, and unworthy creature you have believed yourself to be.

Can you imagine, then, gracefully allowing the life you are living to be
laid down upon the altar of the heart of Christ, to release possession
of your own life and give it back to the Source of life? To recognize
that through you in any moment life can be extended or denied. And that
the only thing you truly have need of doing is to attend with vigilance
to the choice you are making moment to moment. And if you have ever
tasted the sweetness of your union with God, and if you've ever smelled
the sweet nectar of the flower of perfection, remember then that the
only thing that can separate you from it is the wrong use of your free
will. And that wrong use has nothing to do with your actions, which are
always and only the effects of the true power of free choice. To think
the thought of fear. To replace the reality of love.

Here, then, is your only test. And if you would truly understand what
I've sought to share with you in so many ways, you will come to see that
it is not a burden but a blessing and a joy to recognize that time that
seems to be the prison of your suffering&hellip;for if you would look
well, you will that know that whenever you have suffered there have been
links to events in time&hellip;that time itself can become the glorious
field in which you get to master the choice for love.

Know, then, that any sense of conflict or suffering comes only because
you've been inconsistent in your practice. And simply begin anew.

The message I would share with you in this hour is simple. But upon it
rests the foundations of the coming of heaven to earth. And to all who
would hear these words, I beseech you&hellip;practice well the
remembrance of the truth that is true always&hellip;that through you the
love of God might flow into this world. You need not be the director of
that love, but only the allower of it. And if you allow it not to
yourself, what have you to offer your brother and sister? But the
greatest of giving is to give to yourself. And the Comforter will know
how to take what overflows and direct it as needed. Therefore, make sure
your own cup is full always, before you lift a finger or say a word.
Therefore, rest now in this moment. Give yourself back to that perfect
peace. And we will rest here together, for though you believe you are in
a body, rest assured you are not. In truth, you are where I
am&hellip;unlimited forever.

Abide here, then, with me now for just a moment. Tarry with me a little
longer. And rest into that perfect peace that forever passes all
understanding.

