---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Two"
nxt: /wom/wok/l03/
prev: /wom/wok/l01/
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
---

<p class="tr_break"> Now, we begin. </p>

And indeed, once again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. As
always, it is with great joy that we come forth to abide with you in
this hour and in this manner. For the forms of communication are
virtually unlimited. Communication requires only the willingness of any
two minds to *join in communion*. Communion requires the willingness to
rescind one’s investment in being right. Rescinding one’s investment in
being right requires recognition that either mind does not know what a
single thing *is* or is *for*.

For in that journey, which began in *The Way of the Heart*, and continued
with *The Way of Transformation*, and begins to culminate in *The Way of
Knowing*, surely, you have heard me say to you, countless times and in
countless ways, to awaken in remembrance absolutely requires that you
choose to want - above all things - to *think with the Mind of God*. And
to think with the Mind of God requires that you be *taught anew*. To be
taught implies a willingness to learn. And a *willingness to learn*
implies that one is willing to create a *space of emptiness within* that
can be filled with a new substance, a new elixir, a new alchemical
substance, if you will.

Therefore, that pathway that brings the soul into perfect remembrance
requires the cultivation of the __Keys to the Kingdom: Desire, Intention,
Allowance, Surrender__. The most essential of those Keys, again, is
*Allowance*. For there is no one listening to these words who has not
already cultivated at least a sufficient Desire. It may not be one
hundred percent perfected, but the Desire has been there. For no one
would come into my presence, no one would come into communication with
that group of beings - masters, teachers, friends ... By the way, we
choose as a group to be known as simply “The Lineage,” for which I
remain the primary spokesman through this, my beloved brother, but there
are many forms of our communication with mankind ... No one would come
into this presence who has not *already desired* healing, awakening, and
remembrance.

<!-- Track t2 -->

*Intention* is the only place that you can begin to correctly use the *will*
that was originally your Creator’s Gift to you. For the correct use of
will, or clear Intention, is to bring forth the good, the holy, and the
beautiful. And any mind that reflects upon its experience and has come
to see that, often, fear has been in the driver’s seat more than Love,
will rightfully use Intention to ask for help in gaining correction of
the mind, that itself, that mind, that soul, might again come into
alignment with the Will of God.

Coming into alignment with the Will of God is not an act of
subservience, although it feels as such to the insane ego. But to the
pure of heart, to the meek who shall inherit the Earth, to those who
recognize their insanity and want a transformation to perfect sanity,
aligning with the Will of God through clear Intention is to seek for
that which is one’s greatest good. It is not a loss at all. It is
*perfect remembrance*. Coming into that alignment, then, is like one who
gives up one of your golden coins to receive ten million golden coins.
It is as though one would give up a rag doll in order to step into a
true love relationship of flesh and bone and emotion and passion. It is
as one who would give up the hope or wish for a drink of water and go to
the faucet, if you will, and fill the cup with living fluids.

Understand, then, that Intention, when it is focused wholly on *wanting
only God*, can never take anything from you that you truly want. And it
will come to replace for you that which you’ve always wanted, have known
in the ancient past, and are calling back to you now.

<!-- Track t3 -->

Desire, Intention, Allowance ... *Allowance*. Oh, indeed, beloved
friends, and there are many of you that have come to taste the Truth of
what I am to say. Allowance is the greatest of Keys to the Kingdom. For
Allowance requires a rescinding - slowly, patiently at times, painfully
at times - a rescinding of every perception you have ever held of
everyone and everything. It is the descent into complete recognition of
your ignorance, a complete recognition of your joy-filled dependence on
the corrective power of the Holy Spirit.

Allowance is the greatest of Keys to the Kingdom. This requires
cultivation *in time*. And when there has been the Desire for healing and
awakening, rest assured, that already your Father, through the Holy
Spirit, is working to reshape every moment of your experience - *every
single moment* - so that the correct teachers, the correct lessons, the
correct books, [laughs] even the correct weather, can come to force you
to look at your edges of *unhappiness*, your edges of *judgment*, your edges
of *insecurity*, your edges of *fear-based definitions* of what Love is,
what it should look like, and what its effects should be. In other
words, the entire world that you have made in error *must* be brought to
the surface of the mind for correction.

Allowance is sweet above the taste of honey. For Allowance is that realm
in which miracles can finally begin to occur. And what is a miracle? It
is not really a change at all. It is merely the recognition of what has
always been - that there is a Love, a Power, that would live through
you, that would guide you in all things; that you need not be the
captain of the ship, you need only be willing to take the cruise.

<!-- Track t4 -->

These three Keys, which are *active* in a sense, that is, they are
experienced in time, they bring up questionings, they require some
resolve and commitment and faith, culminate in *Surrender*. But this
culmination is not something that you do for yourself. Rather, when the
seed has been well planted, when the ground has been tilled and
cultivated, when the wise farmer has made sure that the weather
conditions, the watering conditions, and everything, are just right so
that the seed can be well nurtured, Surrender is much like the petals
which emerge *in their own time*. Here the farmer can do nothing but wait
for Grace to descend.

He may not see that the petals are emerging as the result of *all* things
that have gone forth before: in the selection of the seeds, in the
waiting for the perfect time to plant, in each day’s cultivation and
weeding of the garden. *Choosing* to enter times of prayer, in other
words. *Choosing* to see where fear has made a home in the mind and
surrendering it to the Holy Spirit. *Cultivating* turning over each
decision, day by day, moment by moment. He may not see the causal
connection. He will only see and witness the emerging of the petals.
That emerging has been called, in some cultures, “extraordinary” gifts,
such as clairvoyance, clairaudience, the ability to leave the body, the
experience of communicating with discarnate beings, such as myself, the
ability to see and read the soul of another.

But more important than all of these is *Peace*. Peace is the culmination
of the spiritual journey. It becomes the *field* in which one has entered
the Kingdom and now journeys within it in perfect freedom - a freedom
that cannot be understood by the minds of mankind that still live in
fear, doubt, separation, and even the most subtle traces of egoism.
*Peace is the goal.* But Peace is not a passivity. It is really the *seat
of creative power*. For you were created to create the *good*, the *holy*,
and the *beautiful*.

For a while, you learn to create something else. And yet, that creation
has occurred nowhere, save within the mind. It is merely a chimera or an
illusion. But as you cultivated the power to create illusion, so, too,
does the journey to God require purification - that process whereby you
surrender your will, the egoic mind, over to correction by the Holy
Spirit.

<!-- Track t5 -->

This journey will take you into what this, my beloved brother, calls
“the essence of what you do not know you do not know.” That is what
makes it *unconscious*. For you have used the power of the mind to push
down out of yourself your fears, where they actually gain power but you
do not need to confront them directly. Denial or suppression, as they
speak of it in your psychological language, is the very root of the
creation of the ego. And that which has been hidden *must be made known*.
And in its being made known, *purification* can occur.

Rest assured, then, as I’ve shared with you many times: Give thanks unto
the saviors that are sent unto you. They come in many guises and forms.
Some of you would look upon me as your savior. And in the sense that I
am sent unto you as a teacher, I am. But it is only the *teaching* that
saves you, not me. Your saviors will often, and more often, show up unto
you as those who evoke within you your deepest reactions, your vehement
judgment, your *certainty* that *you* are *right*! When these things occur and
your peace is disturbed, your greatest reactivity has been triggered,
your greatest emotionality is triggered, *there* is the *edge* that calls
for your attention! For remember always, that nothing can come to you
unless you have called it from within yourself in order to grow more
deeply in forgiveness, in wisdom, in Love, and in the Power of Christ.

As purification begins to touch most fundamental or most radical levels,
the *sweetness of Peace* begins to be remembered - faintly at first, and
then more and more, and more and more. One has a realization. Remember
the whole journey is merely one with no distance to it at all to a goal
that’s never changed - it is just a change of mind, a remembrance.
Realization, then, may be the recognition that,

> Oh, I used to think this way, but now I see the emptiness of such silly things.

That quickly [snaps fingers], that fast - it’s over, it’s gone. Where
did the illusion go? It got erased by the cosmic eraser on the end of
the pencil held by the Holy Spirit, because of your *Desire*, your
*Intention*, your *Allowance*, and your *cultivation* of all of those tools
that support you to choose again, to want only Love.

Grace purifies the mind. And Grace is a direct gift of your Father. It
is that energy or Power of Love that descends into a mind and heart that
prepares a place for it. You could say that your greatest preparation is
to admit that you do not know what anything is for. That if you’re
feeling emotions, if you’re feeling like you want to run, if you feel
like you want to avoid taking responsibility for something that’s been
dropped in your lap, rest assured, *right there is your edge*. There is
the place you need to *turn back* and *embrace*.

And in the end, once the journey has begun, the end *is* perfectly
certain. Peace is the perfect goal. But there are few, still, who truly
understand what Peace is. It is not the *avoidance* of pain. It is not the
*avoidance* of responsibility. It is the *doorway* to the *greatest* of
responsibilities in which the mind, the heart, the soul, and even the
body, while it lasts, has been so purified of dissonance, it has become
so aligned with the Will of God, that it looks upon all things with the
Compassion of Christ. Such a one walks this world of yours *unknown* by
those around him or her. That one serves only the Voice of the Holy
Spirit. It is not the least bit concerned with others’ reactivity. For
the only goal of the Awakened Christ - and Peace and Christ
Consciousness are one and the same - is to be an agent through which the
Power of Grace works to transform illusion. That Mind serves the
Atonement. That Mind may not be understood by others, but how can the
*insane* understand the *sane*?

<!-- Track t6 -->

Indeed, beloved friends, Surrender is like the petals of the flower.
They emerge in their own time. And one cannot necessarily see the causal
connection of all that has gone before with the sweet nectar of perfect
remembrance: the flowering of the soul that is no longer fearful and
abides in the world awake, in peace, open - that through which the flow
of Grace descends to touch the world. Surrender flowers from the only
three things you can do: Desire, Intend, Allow. *Allow purification to
occur.* Be willing to visit every dark corner of the mind. For, in Truth,
it is not necessary to seek for Love, for Love already embraces you. But
it *is* necessary to *seek for what is false*:

> Where am I fooling myself?
> 
> Where am I committed to my image in the world?
> 
> Where am I committed to thinking for myself because underneath I don’t
> truly trust that God loves me?
> 
> Where am I lying to myself or to others?
> 
> Where am I in denial?
> 
> Where do I need to understand what projection is?
> 
> Where do I need to understand more deeply how the viciousness of the ego
> works within my own mind?
> 
> Where am I pointing a finger outside of myself?
> 
> Where am I denying my fear?
> 
> Where am I demanding that the world show up as I would have it, instead
> of surrendering to the structuring of the world in the Hands of the Holy
> Spirit that serves entirely my healing, my growth, my maturing into true
> responsibility?

Indeed, beloved friends, in *The Way of Knowing* it is absolutely required
that you pause often and look around you and say:

> I abide in the perfection of a loving universe. Nothing can occur by
> accident. And where I am in this moment must be the perfect place for me
> to be. How can I find the doorway to stillness within, now?
> 
> Where within me can I rest, in peace, and ask the Holy Spirit’s
> guidance?
> 
> Where, in this moment, am I clinging to another or to a thing?
> 
> Where am I looking upon another person or another thing in this
> universe, claiming it is my possession?

For what you do not give to be shared that you say you have loved, rest
assured, beloved friend, in that moment, you are in the *viciousness of
specialness*. The egoic mind believes that if it shares what it has, it
loses. Therefore, in your world, when you perceive that someone or
something has brought you a great source of comfort and love, and even
security, to see that being shared elsewhere activates the fear of loss
within the ego. Much like many of you might remember when you were
teenagers, and you began “going” with a certain boy or certain girl in
the seventh grade, and then two weeks later, they decided to “go” with
someone else. Oh, how crushing it was, for the source of your love has
been stripped from you! Never will you enjoy the smell of a flower
again. Never will food taste good. There could surely be no one else in
this universe that could provide you this great source of love and
attention! Such is the immaturity of the child. Such the immaturity of
many “children” who live in fifty-year-old bodies!

For, beloved friends, there is *no one* and *no created thing* - and the
body-mind is just a created thing - that can be your *source* for Love.
Relationship was never meant to be a device for finding sources for
Love. Relationships were designed to be *holy*. And in holy relationship,
two have come together - not to *get*, but to *create* out of loving
devotion to the Grace that has awakened and purified their mind and
hearts to the realization that only Love is Real, that there is no such
thing as loss, and only Love is worthy to be celebrated. In Perfect
Love, there is no possessiveness. In Perfect Love, there is perfect
allowing. In Perfect Love - guess what? There isn’t even you! There is
only *God* loving *through you*!

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, look around your very home. Is there
an object that you could not see yourself giving up? If you truly want
to hasten your awakening, go and give it away. For in the end, all that
you *believe* you possess must be given away. And what you believe you
possess is the *right to possessiveness*, the right to *be right*. When all
things created as a substitute for the Reality of God have been
rescinded or surrendered, then indeed, the flower has emerged and the
sweet fragrance blesses everyone.

<!-- Track t7 -->

The Awakened Mind, then, the Mind that rests in Perfect Knowledge, looks
upon all things that It has previously loved and sees that their *form* is
not what is essential. It is the *essence* or the *content* that they
express that matters. A beautiful painting, in and of itself, means
nothing. Hit it with a hammer, light a match to it, throw dirt and mud
on it, it’s not the same. It is not the structure that matters. It is
that in a timeless moment, you looked upon it, entered into
relationship, and experienced the *essence of beauty* flowing through it.
That essence or content is timeless. That essence or content is all
around you! It sustains you! It breathes you! It is the Heart of your
heart, the Soul of your soul, and the Mind of your mind!

Whenever you see any object, whether it be a body, a person, a mind, a
thing, a flower, a pencil - it doesn’t matter - when you feel what you
call “being Love” evoked within you, it is because in that moment you’ve
slipped between the cracks of the world, of the egoic mind, and you are
experiencing the essential content of Reality: Love. You are
experiencing *your own living true Reality*, for only Love is Real. When
you come to see that that *Love* can be experienced at *any* moment, in *any*
situation, with *anyone*, with *any* flower ...

> Well, I like roses but I don’t like plummeria.

What nonsense! *Love* is what you should love! *Love* is what you should
assume responsibility for detecting as it flows through each living
thing. And a rock, in this sense, is a living thing. If it exists,
within it is the good, the holy, and the beautiful. For only that which
contains these things, which is the presence of God, can ever take form
in the first place. *Nothing can be without the essence of what you are
seeking!*

When you understand that it is the *content* that matters and not the
*form*, suffering begins to finally be alleviated. You can begin to
embrace the comings and goings of this transitory realm of the dream, as
a dream. People enter your life and you embrace them and see the good,
the holy, and the beautiful. They flow through their ever-changing
changes, and then they die.

Now death can occur not just at the death of the body. Death occurs at
any moment in relationship when another changes their mind. They may
decide to leave you. They may decide to awaken, which means that the
being that you were relating to is dead. A death has occurred, whether
they leave you physically or not. That’s really rather irrelevant. But
when you come to attune yourself to the essential thread of Love that
flows through all things, you are abiding in a deeper sense of Knowing.
And whether an object, person, place, or thing enters your life and
stays, or whether it flows through in a moment, or whether it flows
through over the course of a lifetime, begins to be less and less
relevant to you - less and less do you grasp at it.

Indeed, the Mind that is truly Awakened and rests in the eternality of
Love that is all things, can lay the head of a loved one down, watch
them take their last breath, feel a little wave of emotion pass through
- all that is, is the disengagement of the auric fields at a physical
level, that’s all it is. So you let the little shudder of tears come
through, you smile and go:

> Oh, how sweet it was. How sweet it is, for Love is eternal. And wherever two
> minds have joined in Love, separation is absolutely impossible! So what’s the
> big deal?

And you allow something your world calls “death” to occur. And yet,
*death is unreal* to the Mind that rests in the Perfect Peace of Knowing.

<!-- Track t8 -->

Beloved friends, you who have journeyed with me for longer than you
would care to remember, it is always a journey of remembering and
forgetting. That’s what makes it your journey. You get a little glimpse
or a taste of God, you tell the world that’s what you want, but then,
right away, you decide to forget it again so that you can experience the
sweetness of *seeking*. You’ve become addicted to being a seeker. And to
seek, you must first cleverly *push away* what is always yours anyway, in
order to embark on yet another journey of seeking.

*Finding* - which is the same as resting in Knowledge, the same as Christ
Consciousness, the same as Perfect Peace - *finding* requires giving up
the game of seeking. Such a one cannot be known by the minds of the
world. Such a one walks the world but inwardly is empty. Such a one is
merely a conduit through which there are no longer any obstructions to
the offering of God’s Grace.

Indeed, beloved friends, you have journeyed with me for so long. Many of
you have journeyed with me for so long that you’ve taught yourself the
only way to be in relationship with me is to be *dependent* upon me. You
have journeyed with me so long that you can’t imagine, or won’t let
yourself imagine, being my equal. You won’t let yourself imagine *letting
go* of me. And yet, I say unto you, stepping into the fullness of Love
requires *letting go of everything* you have possessed, even if that
possession is me. For Love requires, finally, that you step through the
door into the Kingdom and declare:

> I am That One sent of the Father, created before all things. I am only
> Love. I am not my mind. I am not my body. I am not my personality. I’m
> not my history. I do not belong to the world. I am that vibration, that
> note of Love. I am the Christ, and as such do I abide. I love equally. I
> love without reservation. I love without possessiveness. I love only to
> extend the presence of God, that another might touch that place within
> themselves and be set free.

*Love cannot possess.* Wherever there is a trace of conditionality, rest
assured, the viciousness of fear is in the ascendancy. Therefore, if you
cannot surrender your pet, if you cannot surrender the object that sits
upon your counter in your kitchen, if you cannot surrender a beloved
into death, if you cannot surrender a beloved who changes their mind and
decides to move to Antarctica, with celebration - rest assured, there is
yet a place within you that requires correction. Correction requires
willingness, *Intention*. And Intention requires your *Desire* that you
dissolve even more deeply into the Love which *is* God.

Listen *very* carefully. Indeed, listen *very, very carefully* ...

If you would know the Love of God, *you must BE that Love*. You can’t know
*about* it. You must literally *be* the presence of that Love. Only then do
you know God.

This, then, is the essence of *The Way of Knowing: knowing by BEING that
which you would have knowledge of - direct* experience, *direct*
apprehension, by choosing to *be only that*. This is why Knowledge is a
mystical experience. This is why True Knowing has an *immediacy*. It is
not mediated through a theology, a religion, a philosophy, or any words.
Words are just symbols of symbols. They are symbols of ideas, and ideas
are a step still away from reality. One who knows Love knows it because
every cell of their being is the *presence* of Love. *The Way of Knowing*
culminates with your perfect resolve to *BE* the presence of the Love that
God Is.

<!-- Track t9 -->

Now, if you would truly know Love, look upon the things that you fear.
Discover them. Dig them up and out of yourself. Rest assured, any time
you must look at another and analyze them, there is something you fear.
Anything that pushes your buttons is a *sign* that something is still
requiring your Love.

*The Way of Knowing*, beloved friends, can culminate *only* in the
transformation of your mind to such a level of completion that you sit
in your rocking chair and say:

> There is only God. There has never been a separate me. There never could have
> been. There is only this moment in which Love can dance, can be celebrated,
> and can be extended. Father, what can we create this day that offers to the
> world the Grace of the good, the holy, and the beautiful?

I once described the highest state of consciousness, highest state of
purification, as one in which the Son has awakened, and looks around him
and sees to infinity. He sees not where He begins and the Father ends.
For such is Their union, such Their marriage, such Their dance - the
Unformed and the Formed, the Source and the Created, the Creator and the
Creating - such this alchemical marriage that one cannot look and see
where the soul ends and the Creator begins. And yet, the Awakened Mind
knows that It is still the Created and It surrenders in perfect joy each
moment,

> Father, what would you have me do? What is Your Will for me?

Not in subservience, but because sanity has returned. It recognizes that
It has never been the tiny gnat, whining and complaining and trying to
make Life work the way it thinks it ought to work. It surrenders each
moment. It dissolves in each moment. It abides in each moment. It knows
that only the Love of God is Real,

> Father, what would you have me do?

And It opens Itself and It receives the pebbles being dropped into Its
pond, now not by Its own hand, but by the Hand of Grace, the perfect
Hand of Mystery that I have called *Abba* - that Love, that creative
Source, that Power, that Joy, that *sublime, sweet, sweet Mystery* that is
constantly creating, for Love must extend Itself!

No longer is there concern or worry over the body. No longer is there
concern or worry over the state of the world. No longer is there concern
or worry over *anything*. There is only the eternal dance of Creation. The
Awakened Mind *knows that It is a participant in Perfect Mystery*, and
there are no longer any blocks or fears, whatsoever. And wherever you
find yourself, if you’re asked to be crucified, dead, and buried so you
shock the world into realizing that there’s something else besides
“surviving,” you do it! If it comes and it is given unto you to write
books, you write them. So what? You’re not attached. The flow of
creativity is moving through you. If you’re asked to take a simple
picture that I placed in the mind of a certain artist and distribute it
to fifteen million people, you simply do it, because you’re no longer
attached to your ego. If I ask you - if Love asks you through me or
through another - to move to the far ends of the Earth to build a hut
and to chant, you go and do it. What’s the problem? There isn’t any!

You are free as the wind. And only those born of the Spirit *know* the
Spirit. The Spirit comes and goes where It does. You don’t know where It
came from. You don’t know where It’s going. You totally confuse the
minds of mankind. *You are free!* For you listen to no other voice but the
*Voice for Love*! What would you hold onto in a world of illusion?

<!-- Track t10 -->

Learn to discover the *content* that pervades all form, and you will taste
the perfect freedom, the alleviation of pain that comes with attachment
to the form - even your own. Even your very thoughts that yesterday you
thought were true - today you’ve been taken even more deeply into Love,
and what is in the past is allowed to pass away:

> Yesterday I thought I knew God. Ha! Today I know God even more deeply
> because I’ve rescinded my need to be right about what I once thought I
> knew to be true. Father, give me even more of You! Father, give me even
> more of You! I want more! I desire more! You are infinite! You are my
> Beloved! I want only to die in You - ever more, ever deeper! Give me
> more of You - to taste You, to devour You, to die in You! More and more!

And “more and more” becomes an eternal journey without end to a goal
that has never changed - a journey with no distance, only the sublime
experience of tasting God and then surrendering that taste in order to
taste even more. Love comes to supplant fear. And learning to jump in
order to receive the parachute becomes a delightful game to play.

When I decided to allow the crucifixion, I jumped.

> Can I find my Father even more deeply here?

For me, it was the culmination of a life in which I developed trust that
my Father would always catch me. That journey, by the way, has never
ended. And those of you that would come to where I am, rest assured, you
best not waste a single moment. For I am continually dying more and more
into God.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, we will end this short hour with
this suggestion:

> Where is fear still abiding in my mind? Is there anything that I still
> fear? Is it the death of a husband or a wife? Is it the growing up of a
> child? Is it the loss of a job? Is it being without shelter?

Where is the edge of your fear?

> Can I imagine abiding without a man in my life? Can I abide without a
> woman in my life?

Hmm? This is nothing more than unhealed, what you call, mother and
father issues. It is an *authority* problem.

The Awakened abide only with God. They cannot any longer comprehend
possessing or being possessed. They allow all things, trust all things.
They love without reservation the one who stands before them as the
embodiment of their very Beloved - *the content or essence which is the
presence of God*. For when you look upon your brother or sister and see
only Christ, you have seen with the Eyes of Christ. And Christ simply
loves.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, be at peace.

Amen.

---

## Question One

*Question One*: Jeshua, could you help us define *Knowledge* or *Knowing*?

*Answer*: Certainly. Knowing or Knowledge is an immediate quality of
feeling. It transcends symbols. Knowledge is the result of revelation,
and revelation is always intensely personal. That is, revelation flows
across the gap that has seemed to exist between the Mind of God and the
mind of the soul, or the Created. It cannot be mediated by symbols,
since symbols are removed from Reality.

If you were to try to describe your revelation, you must immediately
move into the realm of ideas and words. Words are symbols of symbols,
and are thus twice removed from Reality. Ideas are what words are
symbols of. Reality is unmediated. It is immediate. All of you have had
many, many revelations. In an instant you simply see and know,

> Ah! I see. I know. Ah!

Then you let it go. If someone were to ask you,

> Well, what just happened?

then comes the *art* of trying to communicate through the mediation of
words and ideas to give some sense of the revelation.

This is why even the greatest of your mystics, the greatest of your
teachers, have tried to utter in words the essence of their revolution,
or revelation of awakening (indeed, it is a revolution, too). Everything
that I ever said, when I walked the earth as a man, anything that I have
ever said to you, is the *artful attempt* to use symbols to point you in
the direction of some *feeling* of the revelation that has occurred within
my own mind of Christ. It’s just the way it is; there’s not much you can
do about it. The attempt to communicate requires communion. And a
teacher seeks the art-filled, art-guided way of evoking a state of
communion between his and her mind and the mind of the student, in order
to transfer the essence of revelation.

Knowing, then, has nothing to do with theology, religion, or a single
text that has ever been given. Knowing, or Knowledge, is *immediate*. It
is a Knowing by *being* that which the mind would seek to know.

When you touch Christ Mind, *you know it*. Because all of your beingness,
the mind, the emotions, the physiology of the body — everything changes
and comes into alignment. And in that moment, there is *no possibility* or
even memory of *fear*. There is *nothing* but simply being present. It is
timeless, it is eternal, it is peaceful.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, come to understand that *Knowing is
what you seek*. And yet, Knowing does require that you begin by
acknowledging that you are Christ. Remember always that this is the
first and most fundamental act of purification. Your mind will tell you,

> No, I’m a wretched sinner. No, I’m not there yet.

That is egoic thinking. You must notice it and say,

> No. That cannot be the Truth of me. The Truth of me is that I am the
> Holy Son of God — now.

You’ve dropped a pebble in the pond that creates ripples that will
dissolve the patterns of fear that you once created to replace the
Truth.

Knowing and Knowledge has nothing to do with belief. It is beyond belief
— quite literally to the world mind. Knowing and Knowledge has nothing
to do with theology or religion. It has everything to do with Reality.

That should be sufficient for now. We would suggest that you think
deeply about what was said. It, in itself, will drop pebbles in the pond
that help dissolve the resistance to Knowledge.

---

## Question Two

*Question Two*: Over the years we have seen many people who appear to get
right to the crux of their blocks, and then they stop. After, they will
pull away. And sometimes there can be projection, the forming of “glee
clubs,” and even outright attack. Could you speak to what’s occurring
there, as well as the best way to deal with it?

*Answer*: Well, indeed, beloved friend, I *never* experienced this when I
was on the planet! Hmm.

Remember, always, that the world is the attempt of mind to create a
*substitute* for the Kingdom of Heaven, to create a substitute for
Reality. It is the *misuse* of power. It is a *waste* of the very gift that
the Creator gives to the Created. It is *extremely* important to remember
that as you walk the Earth, in the world (and there’s a distinction
between the world and the Earth: the *world* is what mankind has made in
error), as you literally walk down your street, you are walking through
a *field of illusion* in which fear seems to dominate. When everyone is
fearful, everyone will believe that everyone is sane and normal. It is
just taken to be the norm. And yet, the world is the opposite of the
Kingdom.

Why is this important? Where fear has made a home in the mind, where any
mind has become entranced with fear and doesn’t even know it, it will
cling to the foundational structure of belief upon which it is based:

> I am guilty. I am separate from God. This is why I have to manipulate
> you, because I can’t trust God. I won’t find my security unless I 
> figure out how to shape the world to give me what I think I need.

Fear has many stepchildren. They are all vicious. And in the world you
will encounter viciousness. You encounter it right now a thousand times
*every day* — the store clerk who seems to be absent or not present with
you as you put your groceries on the counter; the driver who honks at
you because you are going three miles an hour slower than he or she
wants you to. All of these are expressions of the insanity of fear. For
where there is Love, there is a willingness to show up and be wholly
present in the body-mind. Where Love is present, there is patience,
trust, allowance, graciousness. The world you live in is permeated by
fear — it’s what made the world in the first place. Never deny this.

What then happens is this. *The first part of the mind which engages the
spiritual journey is the ego.* It is the ego that first decides to listen
to a tape of Jeshua ben Joseph. It is the ego that first opens to my
presence. It is the ego that first picks up *A Course in Miracles*. Why?
Because the ego is what is in charge. It has tried everything else. It’s
coming close to the time of its death and dissolution. And therefore, it
looks upon spirituality as the one last-gasp attempt to *gain power and
control*.

*The ego always speaks first.* So, you’ll read a paragraph in *A Course In
Miracles*, and immediately start thinking about it, immediately start
pontificating about it. That’s nothing but the ego! Those that would
puff themselves up with many words *about* the *Course* are usually those
least interested in *living* the *Course*. Do you see?

Therefore, what occurs is this. As any mind begins its “grand spiritual
journey,” what it’s really being run by is the seeking for experiences
that *it* has decided will *feel good*. Now, it will begin to have some
experiences. It will go to workshops. It will read the *Course*. And guess
what? The Holy Spirit seduces it. It does have moments of dissolution,
little deaths, “Oh!” Spirit breaks through the ego. So the ego is
attempting to use something for its own good, not even realizing that
it’s the very thing the Holy Spirit will eventually succeed at using in
destroying the ego, the grip the ego has on the mind.

However, imagine that you are the defender of a castle. And around the
castle you have five thousand acres. Now, out there in the fringes of
your dominion, your kingdom, there are a few small hamlets. When the
enemy comes to attack your castle, and you first hear that the enemy is
amassing at your borders, there’s a little fear:

> Well, okay. So we’ll give it a few hamlets. Big deal. We’ll let 
> Genghis Khan have the hamlet at the furthest edge.

But the closer Genghis Khan comes to the castle, the more ferocious
Genghis Khan seems to be, the more the ramparts are pulled up, the more
the soldiers come to line the fortress, the more you prepare yourself
with your cannons, machine guns, and what have you. You’ll do anything
to defend the heart of the castle.

Now, in Truth, there was never a Genghis Khan. There were merely angels
on white horses coming to bring the petals of Love and healing, coming
to teach you that you need not build fortresses at all, that you can let
the castle go and live in the meadows in the Father’s Kingdom. However,
those angels are turned into ferocious monsters that look like Genghis
Khan and,

> Surely, they’re out to destroy me.

Never underestimate the viciousness of the ego. This will happen time,
and time, and time, again. As, on the one hand, the egoic mind that says
it’s on a spiritual path will engage its practices and — oh my! — it
will just talk and talk and talk and talk, and read and study, and
travel, and do workshops. It will do all of these things, never
realizing that it is really about trying to defend its inner castle —
the place where the ego is still in authority.

And as Love begins to penetrate and take over the hamlets, it gets
closer and closer. And sometimes, the heat is too much. The power of the
ego is still too strong and it pushes Love away. Now, how do you push
Love away? By *calling it* something else. By seeing it as Genghis Khan:

> How dare you ask me to question my own views on sexuality! Why, I know
> the truth! This is the way it must be!

And then, that very mind will go to a workshop and hear about denial,
projection, attack. It will hear all these nice theories and it will go,

> Yes, yes. Ha, ha, ha, ha! Oh, yes. Well, hmm, hmm, hmm.

But boy! When its own inner castle is threatened, and reactivity rears
its head, and it sends its soldiers to the wall to keep Genghis Khan out
...

It takes much, much experience in the pathway of purification to come to
recognize that *where there is reaction, there is fear. What is not Love
is fear*, and nothing else. At any time, when you have enmity with a
brother or sister, that is, you’re getting your buttons pushed, you’ve
got a problem or an issue ... when you do not go to them directly, but
rather seek out others to talk to, you will seek an accomplice — what
you have called a “glee club”:

> Let’s get together and sing the chorus of what’s wrong with that person over
> there. This way, we both get to be right.

At any time that you think you have an issue with someone, and you do
not go to them directly to discuss it with openness, to discuss it with
the goal being growth and learning, you may rest assured that you have
rushed into your castle and sent your soldiers to the wall. And you are
*delaying* your healing and awakening. Any time you seek an accomplice,
you have lost and the ego has won. Because why? Because fear has won!

> Oh, gee. I’ve really had this issue. Gosh, what you did is really
> pushing my buttons. But I’m not going to talk to you about it. I’ll go
> find somebody else who’s also had their buttons pushed. We’ll get
> together and discuss what’s wrong with you, so we get to be safe.

Where? Inside the castle of illusion.

So, as Love penetrates the veils, the hamlets, of the kingdom of the
ego, it gets closer to the castle. The ego seeks to fortify its
boundaries. Why? Because the ego is fear itself.

It takes *much* experience — *much* maturity — at *truly owning* that what’s
occurring under your skin is yours. Are you committed to Love and
healing and growth? Or are you committed to keeping the status quo in
place? Fear grips you [snaps fingers] that fast! It causes all manner of
reactivity, projection, attack. That’s just the viciousness of the
insane ego.

Now this has occurred, as you know, in the nature of your journey with
me, for the two of you specifically over the last nine years, many
times. Why? Because your work, both within yourselves, and therefore
within the outer work, the service that you give to others, is *about*
dissolving the castle. That is what the essence of Shanti Christo is:
*dissolving the deepest, innermost bastion of strength in which the ego
is running the show*.

This work that I engage with you in is *the deepest work possible*. It is
*only* about the Atonement. The Atonement is not to make you feel good. It
is literally to purify the mind of the grip of the ego, so that God can
possess, if you will, your mind, your life, your being — so that you can
return to being a creator of the good, the holy, and the beautiful.

This means, first of all, that this work attracts those who are at
various stages of their desire to awaken. Many of them are at the egoic
stage. What is the egoic stage of spirituality? It is that stage in
which the ego knows it’s tried everything else. It’s tried to make
money. It’s had relationships. It’s done its drugs in your culture. It’s
had too many hours of TV. It’s tried *everything* to stay in power, and it
perceives that perhaps in the “spiritual life” it will finally gain the
power it seeks over what it perceives to be Genghis Khan on the borders
of its dominion.

Therefore, many will first be attracted to my message, through this, my
beloved brother — through the various forms of the work that I have
guided you to learn, to become skillful in. But the first level of
attraction is always *the seeking of a new power*. The rattles will come
when the hamlets begin to be attacked. And depending on the strength
that the ego has — no matter how much so-called spiritual journeying one
has done — the strength of the ego within the castle will be perceived
by those who pull away, by those who need to project and attack, those
that need to form glee clubs — these are *signs*. They can merely teach
you to learn more deeply the subtle nuances of how egoic consciousness
works. This, in turn, improves your ability to teach.

This is why whenever you feel attacked, what matters first of all is to
recognize the mechanics that are at play.

> Oh! If someone’s attacking me, they must be in fear, since there is only Love
> or fear. If there is an issue that I know they have, and they’re not coming to
> talk to me about it, this only shows how deeply fear is actually running their
> life.

Now, the first thing, then, is *compassion* and *prayer*. Hmm? Seeing them
as healed, seeing them as whole, asking for guidance,

> Should I go speak to them?

Yes. No. The Holy Spirit will let you know.

The second thing is, if I’m *feeling* attacked, let me drop *them*, bring
attention back to myself,

> What’s feeling attacked in me?

For only egoic consciousness can *be* attacked. Christ cannot be attacked
— it’s impossible. Christ just laughs. Christ may choose to take the
body-mind away from those who are dangerous to the body-mind, but *Christ*
never feels attacked. So it’s a great offering, and in this sense
they’ve become your savior — not because they’re enlightened, but
because you can use the situation to more deeply see what *you* may yet be
afraid of.

Now, what’s the crux of all this? Anyone who truly wants God will seek
out situations of teaching and learning that literally create a context
for the greatest fire, the greatest purification, the greatest heat.
Why? Because they want to get the gold melted down so it can be reshaped
by the Hand of God.

If you are not experiencing other minds saying that you’re wrong, if
you’re not experiencing other minds being activated by the life you’re
living, you better take another look. What’s really running you? Are you
afraid to speak and live your truth? Are you afraid to choose Love over
fear? Are you afraid to look different to other minds? True meekness
stands out like a sore thumb, for the meek know that they do not know.
The meek trust the Holy Spirit. The *ego* is out to get others to like it.
The *soul* wants only God.

Therefore, remember that when you are being attacked, you have, in the
palm of your hand, a great gem that is totally priceless. For you can
deepen your own embodiment of Christ Consciousness. You can learn more
deeply the subtle nuances of how egoic consciousness dominates the mind,
whether yours or another’s. You can learn and learn and learn, and
thereby become a greater teacher, capable of serving the Atonement.

Now, to come back to our analogy of Genghis Khan attacking the kingdom,
think of all things as a vibration of energy. When two people come
together in relationship, or when ten thousand come together, they come
together because there’s a certain level of accord or resonance. Now
Genghis Khan can come so far into the kingdom and everybody in the
kingdom and in the castle is relatively okay:

> Yes, yes. Well, the war is out there on the farthest reaches of our
> kingdom. We can still party. Isn’t this great? Oh, yes. Ha, ha, ha!

Genghis Khan comes closer. And now, every mind must make a choice:

> What am I committed to?

If, for example, there is conflict in a relationship, if one mind in the
relationship refuses to go to the other and say:

> Gosh, I’m really having this issue. We need to go into this because I
> recognize that if I have an issue, there’s something here that I need to
> learn.

If they’re not willing to do that, they’ve reached their edge, what you
have called the “crux of their obstacle.” They’ve looked within, the
situation has flushed something up, but now, they make a choice —
without even knowing that they’ve made it. Their choice is to defend
their castle. They will then spin out and leave you. They’ll spin out
and form glee clubs, they’ll project, they’ll attack, whatever it is.
It’s all harmless insanity. It only means that they’ve missed an
opportunity and will have to come back around at another time, through
more painful experiences, to look at the very issue that they aren’t
willing to go through. They’ve come to their edge of their ring of fear.
And fear has won the day.

That’s their loss. But it need not be yours. For anyone, at anytime, is
*free* to learn more deeply about forgiveness and Love, about patience,
about allowing, about transcending, about growing in the maturity of
embodying Christ. The mind that reaches a certain stage of maturity is
really no longer concerned with projection and attack — in fact, begins
to relish it. For that mind knows that greater power must be coming
through it if it is activating other minds. Do you see? The ego seeks
safety. The Christ Mind serves the Atonement — and has fun doing it.

Now this means that in the stages of Shanti Christo, as we began this
work some nine years ago, going on ten years ago, from the day that I
first came to this, my beloved brother, the goal has always been to
fulfill my agreement with him to bring him fully into God Consciousness,
to journey with him until my obligation as his teacher had ended. Now,
within that, the secondary effect is to create a work that allows a
context in which others *also* can join with me, can enjoin the process of
awakening. That’s what Shanti Christo is, the creation of a context that
can invite the entire humanity, the entire family of humanity, into the
process of dissolving the innermost castle where the ego has built its
fortress. That is what it must serve at all times. This means that the
more powerfully you are doing that, rest assured, it means the more you
will probably find people coming and going, find yourself being
projected on. It’s always been that way in the world, where any Ray of
Light gets too strong and too clear. Do you see?

So in the future, those of you — and there will be more and more playing
with you at deeper and deeper, more mature levels of commitment ...
when you find yourself attacked by others in the world, *remember this
must mean you’re on the right track*! It doesn’t mean you’re going to be
destroyed. No one will destroy this work. It doesn’t mean you’re going
to be hurt. You can’t be hurt. You’re going to succeed. It simply means
that that’s the way it is when Light penetrates darkness. Each mind *must
be given freedom* to protect its castle, to wait for another day, or to
choose to step into deeper maturity, deeper commitment to the great
dissolution and death of egoic control that growth in Christ Mind
requires.

So when people come and go, give it no thought. Merely love and keep
growing yourselves in Christ. The only reason you’ve achieved the level
of miracle-mindedness and success that has been achieved is because you
have matured enough to recognize that this journey must first be *your
own*.

Let each one who comes to join with you remember that the growing
success of Shanti Christo requires *their commitment* to penetrate their
own castles, whether they be your employees, whether they be your Board
of Directors, whether they be your members. Those who say they want to
see the success of this venture *must* be fully committed to the ongoing
process of *birthing Christ in themselves*.

Does that sufficiently answer your question?

*Response*: Yes.

