---
title: "Way of Knowing - Lesson Three"
toc:
- Question One
- Question Two
---

Now, we begin.

And indeed, again, greetings unto you, beloved and holy friends. We come
forth to abide with you — we come forth to abide with you through this,
our beloved brother — in order to enjoin you, yet again, in this year of
*The Way of Knowing*.

Remember always that Knowledge is perfectly certain. Knowledge is that
which is unchanging, unchangeable, and unchanged forever. Knowledge is
Reality, and Reality *is* Love. Knowledge is the essence of your being —
Knowledge, the essence of your soul.

If anyone says unto you,

> I do not know,

they are a liar and a hypocrite, though I would not suggest that you use
those terms in your communication with them. But rather, whether in your
own life or in relationship with a friend, wherever *doubt* seems to arise
in the mind, remember only this: this mind is not currently choosing
Reality. It must, therefore, be choosing something else. And the
something else can only be that experience, that world, of the ego. For
we use the term “ego” to differentiate that state of awareness that is
characterized by *confusion* wearing the *mask of certainty*. When anyone
says unto you,

> I don’t know,

whenever the thought arises in your own mind,

> I don’t know,

rest assured, that in that moment, that mind — your mind — is choosing
to be *other* than what it is.

And what is it, then, that you know?

> I and my Father are One. I am intimately connected with that very Source from
> which has sprung forth all things.

Because this is the Truth, because it is the Truth of your being, this
means that for any situation that requires a decision, you have within
yourself access to Perfect Knowledge. And Perfect Knowledge seeks to
extend Itself. And extension requires the realm of manifestation, the
realm of form, the realm of individuation. Therefore, *you* — as a body
and as a mind, abiding in space and time on a tiny planet — *you are*
Reality’s decision to manifest Itself in form, for no other reason than
to extend Its own nature. The happiness of the soul depends on its
decision to extend only that which *is* Loving.

Because *you* are the manifestation of Reality Itself, of Knowledge
Itself, of Love Itself, it must mean that in any given moment, there is
within you a part of the mind that yet remains free from the ego’s
authority — that part in which there already abides *perfect peace*; that
part of the mind in which there already abides *perfect certainty*; that
part of the mind in which there already abides *the willingness to extend
Love without attachment*. There is already within you that part of the
mind that can deliver up to you the answer for each decision, the answer
that helps to *extend Love*, first into your own beingness, and then
through it. For you can only *give* what you first *receive*. And in your
giving, your receiving is completed.

<!-- Track t2 -->

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, if you would look to see what the
purpose of your life is, it is quite simple. Being only Love, you can
have no other purpose than to extend the treasure of your very Self.
Christ is God’s only creation. Christ is that medium, if you will,
through which the unfathomable, mysterious, beyond-comprehension Source
that I have called *Abba* (and goes by many names), extends Itself into
the creation of temporary forms to reflect, throughout the Universe,
that which the Universe Itself is made of — where it comes from, what it
is enveloped within, and that to which it eternally returns.

Because *you*, like a wave unto the ocean, have been birthed from that
Reality, emerging from that Reality, you are one with it. Therefore, you
*are* Christ Eternal. That is unchanging and unchangeable forever. Within
you, then, even in this very moment, there abides a part of the mind
that already knows the Truth that sets all things free. That part of the
mind can be accessed at *any* time by *any* one under *any* condition. It does
not require years of cultivation, although in the field of time it can
appear that you’re getting better and better at it, simply because
you’re *enjoying* it more and more and giving value to the fear-based
egoic ways of arriving at decisions less and less.

That part of the mind is like an empty and open channel. Nothing can
obscure its purity — *nothing*. Nothing you have ever done, nothing you
have ever thought, nothing you’ve ever miscreated obscures the perfect
silence, the utter purity, of your connection with the Source of your
being. For Love is always connected to Itself.

What does this mean, then? First, anyone who truly enjoins *The Way of
Knowing* must make a decision to accept the Atonement for themselves:

> I am One with my Creator — now. I choose to fulfill my purpose by
> extending only the reflection of my Self, and I am but Love.

Secondly, anyone who would enjoin *The Way of Knowing* must also look and
embrace the very fact that their attention is involved in the world of
space and time, the world of the body itself. But in *The Way of Knowing*,
the world of space and time is *seen* differently. Rather than as
something that exists *external* to the mind itself — something which has
a power over the mind itself, something that is therefore to be feared,
something that one must be conformed to — the things of space and time
are seen and embraced as that which is given of the Creator to the Son,
to the Daughter, in order to be utilized as devices for assisting Christ
to extend Love . . . whether it be a pencil or a computer or a trip to
your grocery store or a party in which you invite your friends to come
and play. All things finally come to be seen as having only one purpose:
*the extension of Love*.

Imagine a business person sitting down to negotiate the closing of a
deal, who goes to that part of the mind that is sane and says,

> What price should I place upon this land that I am about to sell to this other corporation?

And while his accountants and realtors have been telling him that the
property is worth one million dollars, he goes within. And the answer
comes,

> Ask only $250,000 and ask that another $300,000 be donated to
> such-and-such a charity.

In *your* world, which is the world of insanity, the business man would
say,

> Oh no, I can’t do that. I cannot listen to that voice.

But in *The Way of Knowing*, in the way of enlightenment, the businessman
smiles and says exactly what was received. When the shock on the other
person’s face settles down, they will be quite happy to know that
they’ve saved a lot of money, for in *their* world, they think that the
only way to have is to possess. But in *The Way of Knowing*, and in the
way of Reality, the only way to *have* is to *give*.

<!-- Track t3 -->

Now, you are like that businessman. You abide in the world in which *the
business of your Reality is to extend only Love*. Be you, therefore, not
afraid of the world. For the world of space and time, when seen through
the eyes of the enlightened soul that accepts its oneness with God, the
world of space and time is perfectly benign and has *no purpose
whatsoever except to serve Christ in the extension of Love*. And this is
why anyone who comes to answer only the Voice for Love miraculously
finds that the Universe comes to support that one in ways that the egoic
mind can never understand. Miracles do occur as Creation flows from a
mind unencumbered with the pressures of trying to make life go the way
it thinks it needs it to go.

And here we begin to touch upon the essence of my teaching,

> I need do nothing.

This is not a passive state, by the way, of just accepting the fact
that:

> I need to do nothing, and I’ll just show up, and follow my impulses and not
> think too deeply or wonder what I’m doing. I really don’t need to do anything,
> since none of it matters.

That’s not it at all. It means *quite* actively to learn and master the
art you do *need* to do nothing; to find that spaciousness within you in
which you are willing to allow that channel within you that is eternally
connected to your Source to be the vehicle through which you receive
your guidance, in the pure recognition that you have no purpose — save
the extension of Love.

It is not your purpose to survive as a body-mind. It is not your purpose
to keep the same house you’ve had for the last twenty years. It is not
your purpose to be in relationship with this person or that person for
the entirety of the life of the body-mind. It is not your purpose to
accomplish great things. It is not your purpose to be wealthy. It is not
your purpose to do anything *except* be that conduit through which Love
extends Itself.

As you come, truly, to allow Love to be your greatest Beloved, as you
set aside all other idols — the need to hold onto the house, the need to
have certain dollars in the bank, the need to have certain people in
your life — as you come to see that all of that is part of the world of
illusion, as you come to love *Love*, you will have come to love *yourself*.
For you *are* Love, and only this. And as you come to love Love as your
Beloved, more and more, you will discover that you are guided on a path
of miracles in which more power, if you will, seems to be getting
extended through you. You’ll begin to witness that the Universe seems to
support you, more and more, in ways that you could have never imagined.

Out of that you might, indeed, see the life of the body-mind changing —
the car you drive, the home you live in, the quality of the beings that
come into your life. And yet, you will be unattached to these things,
for you will not see them as ends in themselves, but merely as the proof
that the great Wisdom of Love that underlies all things is connecting
you to new forms, new contexts, because It knows that now It can flow
*through* you more powerfully, more certainly, more maturely, more wisely.

Therefore, seek not to improve your life by adding even one cubit unto
your stature, but rather, seek to improve your life by *realizing your
nature as Love*. How do you do that? By recognizing that in each moment
you are in the right place at the right time. And *this* is the moment in
which Love can be remembered, can be restored, and can be extended. *This*
is the moment in which you can decide to listen only to the voice within
you that knows how to extend Love.

<!-- Track t4 -->

Beloved friends, in *The Way of Knowing*, the illusion that there is
something to seek vanishes. In *The Way of Knowing*, the mind is liberated
from the misperception that there’s something wrong going on in the
world. The mind is so liberated that it knows as long as it chooses
Love, as long as it follows the mysterious, quiet voice within its own
heart, that the choices it makes, the decisions it embraces, the actions
it takes, the thoughts that it thinks, cannot help but serve in the
further awakening of every one and every thing, so *perfect* is the Love
that embraces the whole of Creation — God!

You have heard me say to you, therefore, many times, that wherever you
know a fearful thought, it can only mean that you are not thinking
“rightly,” that is, you are not thinking with the Mind of God. And God
is but Love. If a million dollars were to come to you one of your days,
as Christ, you would say:

> This must be the perfect experience for me now. How can I extend Love in this moment?

And if, in the next day, your wallet is perfectly empty, the enlightened
Mind of Christ says:

> This must be the perfect event for me to be experiencing now. How can I extend Love in this moment?

The changing can never be the source of peace. The world of form —
whether dollars in a bank, houses, cars, people, friends, lovers, pets,
plants, and all of the rest — the world of form, in itself, can never be
the source of perfect freedom. These things arise and pass away and are
like ephemeral shadows, wisps of foam dancing in an ocean. When the mind
becomes identified with the *form*, that mind *suffers*. When the mind is
liberated from attachment to form, it is free, for it is identified only
with *content*, or simply the Reality of Love.

In any given moment, you have the power within you to experience the
Reality of Love, unobstructed, unmediated — *now* — without need of
magical means, without need for the Universe to arrange itself in any
certain way, whatsoever. In any given condition, you have within
yourself the power to decide to, literally, *feel* and *experience Love*.
Love, then, or the experience of it, is a decision. It is not something
earned, and it is not something created. It is that which is eternally
present *now* as the very identity of your being, the very Life of your
being, the existence of your being.

Once, I said to this, my beloved brother:

> Merely stand, with arms outstretched and palms up. Open the heart
> deeply, and ask whatsoever you will. And it shall be given you. But ask
> as the Awakened Christ, asking from that place that knows only Love is
> Real.

Therefore, take just a moment, *right now*! Stand from wherever you are,
and take your arms outstretched with palms turned Heavenward. Think
about your own heart for just a moment, and simply ask to *feel* and *know*
the Reality of Love’s presence. Breathe it into your heart. Open the
cells of the body. Open the mind and simply *receive* what is available.

Good! And now you can allow yourself to sit down again, if you wish, or
continue to stand. If you think you “didn’t get it,” you’re simply
fooling yourself. It requires only this. And perhaps we should then give
you this as a meditation to do in *The Way of Knowing*. Arise from your
chairs, and at least once a day, stand with your arms outstretched and
the palms up and say simply:

> I open and receive the Reality of Love for my Self — now!

<!-- Track t5 -->

You see, *Self-love* is the pathway to perfect peace. Self-love opens all
the doors. Self-love dissolves every illusion. I’m not speaking of love
for the illusions of the egoic mind with which you have become
identified. I am not saying that you should say:

> I love my self because I now have x amount of dollars in the bank. I
> love my self because I have a wonderful husband or wife. I love my self
> because I have a great dog.

No.

> I love my <span class="tr_normal">Self</span>.

The Self that is beyond time is that Self from which even the body has
emerged.

Whenever you are in doubt, whenever your energy seems to have dropped,
try a dose of *celebrating*. A simple dose of celebrating that you are in
a perfect Universe, you abide as Love, and the very fact that you have a
body that has emerged out of consciousness in order to be used to extend
only Love is pretty miraculous. And you are free to celebrate that
simple, essential Truth in any moment. Then ask:

> Great! Who can I extend Love to now? How can I experience Love now?

It’s all much simpler than you think.

In *The Way of Knowing*, there is Knowing. If that statement seems
puzzling to you, contemplate it as a meditation:

> In ‘*The Way of Knowing*’, there is Knowing.

There is no more powerful state of consciousness to act from than the
state of Knowing. For indeed, beloved friends, if you truly accepted
yourself as Christ, you would know that you cannot fail. And if you
cannot fail, what would you do with your time? If you knew you could not
possibly fail, that the Universe will support you completely at all
times, as you choose only to act, to do, to think in a way that extends
Love, would you be living where you’re currently living? Would you be
doing with your time what you’re currently doing? . . . many of you
because you think you must survive *first*, in order to find a way to
teach only Love.

In *The Way of Knowing*, the Christ Mind recognizes it has no purpose,
whatsoever, except to extend Love. The body-mind need not survive more
than the next moment, if in that next moment you have extended Love and
your guidance is,

> Time to be beamed up.

Those that know that only Love is Real are not concerned with what they
eat and what they drink. For these things come into the body and leave
through the body. They are concerned only with whether or not that which
they consume for the sake of the body was consumed in Love. For *Love* is
what allows the transmutation of anything that comes into the physical
system and allows it to be turned to that which supports the energetic
wholeness of the physical system itself.

It is far greater, by the way, to have what you call a bottle of Scotch
for breakfast in a state of total Christed Love, than it is to have nine
thousand vitamins spread before you with one tiny little fearful
thought. So, that’s just an aside and something for you to think about.

<!-- Track t6 -->

For you see, it is fear that causes you to be unable to digest what you
place in the body — the body of the emotions, or the body of the mind.
It is what causes stress in the subtle system of the body: the emotional
body, the mental body, the causal body — the subtle nonphysical bodies.
What causes the greatest problem is your refusal to *digest* what you’ve
taken in. And just as food is a physical substance taken into the body,
an *experience* of any kind is a “food” that has been called to the soul.
Anything that arises that cannot pass through you, through your
willingness to embrace it with Love, to feel it completely, will cause
“indigestion” of the physical, emotional, mental, and causal beings or
bodies.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friends, learn to digest *all things* in Love.
Learn to digest the traffic jam in Love. Learn to digest the dying of a
pet in Love. Learn to digest an apple in Love. Learn to digest a hurtful
thought in Love. Learn to digest a misperception that there’s something
wrong with the world around you with Love. Transform all things by the
power of your only Reality.

And now, we would shift ever so slightly and ask you to join with us.
For I want to ask of you: What is it that you have refused to digest in
*this one incarnation*? Was it an unfairness bestowed upon you by your
mother or father? Was it the “bad break” at the office in which you got
passed up for a promotion? What is it in your life that remains
undigested?

There! Something has come into the mind. Trust it. Stay with that one
thought, that one picture, that one memory. For it has arisen in the
conscious mind to be healed and transformed *now*. Bring your attention to
it in this very moment. Look upon it, breathe with the body, and say
simply within the mind:

> I choose now to fully digest this by bringing Love to it, by actually
> loving the event just as it was — loving the picture, the memory, the
> thought, just as it is.

If you wish, you can stand with your arms out wide and your palms turned
Heavenward and receive the Love that transmutes all things. *Breathe* that
Love! *Feel* that Love in and through that picture, that memory, that
feeling — whatever it is that’s occurring for you, until it literally
dissolves. And if you don’t feel that happening, even in your body,
there’s a part of you that’s *resisting* letting go of what has been
undigested. And if that is the case, you need to ask yourself:

> Why do I need to uphold my illusory perception about this event? What in me
> is committed to withholding my Love?

If you wish, we would highly suggest that you spend some time each day
asking the same question:

> What is it that I’ve not been willing to digest about this life and
> about this world? Where am I refusing to bring my Love?

Is it to your government? Is it to your Internal Revenue Service? Hmm?
Is it to the mate? Is it to the children? To the pet? To the school
system? What is it that you have refused to bring your Love to?

<!-- Track t7 -->

For you see, the greatest joy in life is to be the Lover of Life. For as
you love, you experience Love. Therefore, do unto others what you would
have done unto yourself. And is that not to be loved? And when you
choose to love in any given moment, you are the one who gets to receive
the benefits of Love first. It is an immediate experience, and it cannot
be taken from you. You are free to “juice yourself” any time you want by
choosing only to Love. In any given condition, you are the presence of
that one to whom all power under Heaven and earth has been given, not
just to extend Love as a duty, for it is not a duty, it is a *pleasure*.
It is the *supreme pleasure* that can be experienced in the depth of any
mind, whether you happen to be in the world of space and time or, like
me, out of it.

You are the one that can experience Love and let your cup overflow. You
are the one who can *enjoy* each and every moment, regardless of the
conditions. For the conditions are only the interpretations of the egoic
mind. All events are neutral. They are there for you to *love*, that you
might *experience Love*! That’s really how simple it is. It has always
been that way, and it will never change. You are the Lover. The world
can be the reflection of your Beloved.

Let each moment, then, find you in the simple, quiet, inner enjoyment
that comes from the decision *to love*. To love the taking out of the
garbage. To love the rain that hits the windows. To love the crying of
the child .To love, to love, to love! Love embraces all things, allows
all things, trusts all things, and therefore transcends all things. And
that is the power that abides within you when you finally choose to be
That One who Knows.

Look well, then, this day and seize this day. Beloved friends, *where* can
you simply change your mind and bring Love to something that you’ve been
withdrawing Love from?

> Well, I’ve got to go to the office.

No, you don’t! You are *choosing* to go to the office. You might as well
*love* it!

Where, O beloved friends, are you being presented with opportunities to
experience Love coursing through every cell of your being this day? What
can prevent you from experiencing Love if it is not but your own
decision? For in *The Way of Knowing*, the liberated Mind of Christ knows,

> There is nothing outside me.

And with that, peace be unto you always, O Holy Child of God.

Amen.

---

## Question One

*Question One*: How do I not keep one love for myself and yet continue loving
myself?

*Answer*: Indeed, beloved friend, it is a question well asked about a very
subtle, but important, point as one comes to live a fully Christed Life.
When I said not to keep one love for yourself, I was indicating that the
egoic mind looks upon forms of any kind, whether it be person, place, or
thing, and projects its love onto it, and then misperceives it as a
source of Love.

There is nothing outside of you that serves as a source for Love. One of
the great tricks of the mind, in the human experience, is that when the
mind experiences Love, it forgets that it is experiencing It because it
is making a decision to do so. It believes, then, that something outside
of itself has had the power to change its own state. But this is not so.
Therefore, those “loves” become attachments. They are idols. And that
would be another word to use for the love that you should not keep for
yourself.

Make not an idol of that through which you’ve experienced Love. Make not
an idol of the great physical lover who gives you ten thousand orgasms
in a single night — hmm? Do not keep that love for yourself. Do not seek
to possess that one for your own selfish reasons. Do not seek to possess
the money that comes to you and to hoard it up in barns to save against
a rainy day. For that will only insure that you will experience a rainy
day.

Keep not one love for yourself. How, then, can you experience self-love
if you’re not keeping one love for yourself? Beloved friend, the answer
is just the opposite. How can you experience self-love when you are
caught up in trying to possess the loves that you would see as outside
of yourself? Self-love requires surrendering attachment to the illusions
that you have formed about those things — persons, places, or things —
that you think are sources of Love. Think about it. It’s a
hundred-and-eighty-degree turn.

You do not love yourself, you see, by bringing more of the things into
your life that you say you love. That is a great mistake. If you say,

> Oh, I absolutely love shoes.

You will then see that “shoeness” is a source that has a magical power
that can trigger a change of heart and mind in you. And you will then
take the dollars that flow to you, and every time your energy drops,
you’ll think,

> Oh, shoes!

And you’ll run out and you’ll buy yet another pair to get a temporary
fix.

You will think you have loved yourself by giving the *things* to yourself
that you think you love. That is not truly self-love, although it is a
great beginning point when working with someone who is totally insane;
that is, totally caught up in egoic consciousness — so much so that they
won’t even allow themselves to enjoy their egoic state of consciousness.
It is very wise, then, to say to one,

> Oh, you like ice cream? Very well, give yourself total permission to
> have all the ice cream you want.

It’s not the ice cream that matters. It’s the act of recognizing and
re-cultivating the ability to *feel* and *receive enjoyment* — that’s all.

But as that begins to mature, you begin to see through the transparency
of the things of the world. You come to see that you can give yourself
enjoyment by taking a deep breath, stretching the arms out with the
palms up, and receiving Love. Nothing has to change around you. You
don’t have to eat anything. You don’t have to sex the body. You don’t
have to accomplish anything great in the world. You need only receive
the presence of Love.

Self-love, then, actually comes to grow the more you release attachment
to the idols of love that you have created in the world. A woman who
“loves” her garden in the back yard because *it* gives *her* so much
enjoyment — not quite true. She *decides* to bring enjoyment to the act of
gardening, while the neighbor next door can merely have a garden to try
to keep up with the Jones’s, but hates every moment of it.

It is not the garden that creates joy. It is the *decision* to bring joy
to the activity of gardening. And then, you see, the lady can never
leave her house, can never move away, because,

> Oh, my god! I can’t give up my garden. It’s the source of my greatest
> joy!

And that woman stays in the same house until the day she dies, pushing
away her dreams of seeing Europe. Pushing away her dreams of swimming
with a dolphin. Why? Because the garden has become the thing with the
power to give her joy.

> Hold not one love for your self.

Let it go. Let it become transparent. Do not be attached to it. Learn to
recognize that in any given moment, when you are experiencing Love, it’s
because you’ve *decided* to. *You* are the one who has brought enjoyment to
the context of the moment. The thing, in itself, is neutral. Power is
not outside of you.

How, then, can you let go of the loves of the world that you have
created and still love yourself? By holding what I’ve just shared with
you, by sitting with it, by putting it into practice, by recognizing,
more and more deeply, that when you are doing what you love, it’s
because you have first decided to open your heart in Love, and then take
action. If you love to sing, it is the Love that is present first. And
then you sing. The singing doesn’t cause love for yourself.

Therefore, indeed, beloved friend, contemplate well what I have shared
with you. For the great paradox of the mystical Christed Mind is to see
that there’s nothing to hold onto in the world because there is no
world. There is only the Reality of Love extending Itself through the
temporary context of form. If you find yourself loving to make music,
know that it is *from Love* that you are *choosing* to be a music maker,
temporarily.

That should be sufficient for now.

---

## Question Two</span> {#l03q2}

*Question Two*: Since we do not know what our brother or sister needs, is it
possible that the Holy Spirit would guide us to say and do things that
others would react vehemently to, such as You did when You yelled and
got angry at the moneychangers? Is it true that we can’t put a lid on
how the guidance of the Holy Spirit would sound or look?

*Answer*: By its very nature, the guidance of the Holy Spirit comes from
beyond the realm of ideas and perceptions that the mind identifies
itself with. If you think of a room in a house as being where you
normally abide, you know all the furniture, you’ve identified it all,
you’ve defined it, it’s under your control. In such a room, when you go
to access the answer for a problem or a situation that has arisen, you
can only go to what you already know.

That is what the egoic mind tries to do, even when it begins to receive
into its “room” new ideas — spiritual ideas, metaphysical ideas,
religious ideas, magical means ideas. It still is in the realm of the
known and so, when a situation comes up, it rummages around the room
looking for something it knows is already there. And it looks for what
it thinks will be the device, the word, the phrase, the action, that is
the right thing. But this is the very same thing as saying that you
already know what you need to say or do. But you do not have that
knowledge in the room in which the ego lives.

That space or channel, that we spoke of earlier, through which Love can
inform your decisions, requires that you recognize it is *beyond* the
context of the room that you’re used to living in. The mind, as you know
it — your daily mind — can operate *only* in a closed universe of what it
already knows.

Therefore, in a given situation, the Holy Spirit may have said to you,

> Take this homeless brother into your house and fix him a good meal.

And so, you’ve done it. Now, ten years later, there is another homeless
man outside your door. You rummage around in the *past*, and you see that
once you brought this person in and you fed him,

> Oh, this must be the solution because this is my “homeless person” tape.
> I just pulled it out of my dresser drawer in my egoic mind.

And then you set about to act on that and you discover that that
homeless man steals everything in your house. You’ve forgotten that
there was a time when a homeless man appeared and you didn’t know what
to do. You let go of everything you thought you knew and you asked in
prayer. This same way of *not knowing* is the ultimate state of *Knowing*.
Knowing that the egoic mind does *not* know is the source of *powerful
Knowing*.

Therefore, could it be the case that the Holy Spirit would guide you to
say or do something that might cause others to act, or react,
vehemently? Indeed, beloved friends — yes! But remember this: the Holy
Spirit’s guidance is not what is causing another to react vehemently.
Their *own mind* causes that, because they are not committed to healing
and to Love. Any reaction that is not the extension of Love must be
fear, and nothing else. Any form of attack or judgment can come only
from fear, and not from Love.

Therefore, when I felt guided to approach the moneychangers in front of
my Father’s holy temple, I was not guided to say:

> Excuse me, could we have a slight conference here? I would like to
> express a slight opinion, and of course, you’re totally free to do what
> you will, because you’re actually very powerful, rich beings and I am
> just a lonely Essene. But if you’d just give me a minute, I’d just like
> to share my thought.

No. I was guided to move with *great power*, to literally act in the ways
that some would call violence — not that I hurt anybody, but I
overturned their tables and I yelled deeply that,

> You have made my Father’s house a den of thieves!

Now, that got their attention. Why? Because the Holy Spirit saw that
those minds engaged in those activities could respond only to a powerful
energy, since they idolized power, itself. They were always putting
themselves in the position of having more power than the people who came
to the temple. So, what was required was someone who put themselves in a
greater source of power and demonstrated that the moneychangers were not
as powerful as they thought. They couldn’t imagine, before that moment,
that anybody would upset their apple cart. But through that act, it
began to create what you might call a rattle in their mind and their
being as their reality was shaken up a bit. And some of them began to
ponder what it was that they were doing with their lives.

Now, if I was attached to my own *safety*, if I was attached to being
*liked*, I would not have allowed that expression of the Holy Spirit to be
made manifest. And that is what far too many in your world tend to do:

> Oh, if I say what just came to my mind, I may not be liked. But I’m
> really committed to being liked, while pretending to live a spiritual
> life.

But indeed, beloved friend, the way of Atonement, the way of service, is
not a popularity contest.

Therefore, indeed, precious friend, understand well, you have no idea
what your brother or sister needs — from a gentle kiss on the cheek to a
swift kick in the ass. But if you are committed to Love, to innocence,
to freedom, to trust, and if you choose to access the perfect freedom of
your channel of communion with God, and not to react from the egoic
mind, then you will be guided as you need to be. And as you choose to
fulfill that purpose, you have fulfilled your own pathway into the
depths of knowing God.

So, yes, the Holy Spirit is not a namby-pamby, strawberry jelly kind of
energy. The Holy Spirit is committed to one thing: *the Atonement*. The
Atonement occurs when illusions are shattered. The Holy Spirit knows
what is required. And what is required may not always, shall we say,
meet the approval of the social world in which you find yourself. But
those afraid to rattle the cages of others are simply afraid. This means
they run their life by fear and are more committed to their comfort or
safety, which is to be committed to the insanity of the ego, and not to
the freedom of Christed Consciousness.

Does that help with that question?

*Response*: Very much so.

*Jeshua*: Now, I’m not saying there is not an art involved in that. The
degree to which you enact the suggestion of the Holy Spirit comes from
your willingness to save not one love for yourself — to be unattached,
to recognize that you are the student of the Holy Spirit. You see? Which
is, of course, the cultivation of self-love.

*Response*: I see.

*Jeshua*: Indeed. So, have you anything else, or is that sufficient for
now?

*Response*: There are no more questions for this tape, but if you want to
continue elaborating on anything, I’m sure we’d all be happy to hear
your message.

*Jeshua*: There is nothing further that we would choose to elaborate upon.
We would ask you, however — each and every one listening to this tape:
Find some way in which you allow yourself the experience of the *pleasure
of Love’s presence*. Do not let this day end, from the time you hear this
tape until the time you sleep, find a way to enjoy the pleasure of
Love’s presence.

And with that, indeed,

Amen.

