---
title: Jan 16, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good evening.  And welcome.

The subject of the section we’re in is “Fear and Conflict.” And I just
want to refresh everyone’s mind about what we spoke of last week, and
that is that when you turned your back to the Altar, when you looked
outside of yourself rather than within, that act of turning your back on
the Altar caused a disconnection from your Essential Being and your
Sanity, with a capital “S”. And that act itself was what caused every
succeeding experience to be colored by fear.

Having conveniently forgotten that you turned your back on the Altar,
you think that your fear is occasioned by what you are seeing. And so
then, in order to get rid of the fear, you engage in trying to change
the world out there, to change what you are seeing, when that won’t
negate the fear at all. The only thing that will negate the fear is what
caused it. And what caused it was to turn your back on the Altar. So,
let’s keep this in mind as we proceed.

And we will start here.

Fear is always a sign of strain, arising whenever what you want
conflicts with what you do.1

Anybody not clear on what that means? I’m sure everyone has experienced
the conflict between what they want and what they do. And many times you
sacrifice your integrity by doing what you think you need to do, let us
say, to survive, and then you live with the disturbance within you.

Continue . . . 

This situation arises in two ways: First, you can choose to do
conflicting things, either simultaneously or successively. This produces
conflicted behavior, which is intolerable to you because the part of the
mind that wants to do something else is outraged. Second, you can behave
as you think you should, but without entirely wanting to do so. This
produces consistent behavior, but entails great strain.  

I’m not commenting here because this is utterly and simply, clear
English.

Continue . . .

In both cases, the mind and the behavior are out of accord, resulting in
a situation in which you are doing what you do not wholly want to do.
This arouses a sense of coercion that usually produces rage, and
projection is likely to follow.  

Mind you, at the bottom line, what you are doing that is not consistent
with what you want is being done because you have chosen to do it. That
simple fact needs to be very clear. You haven’t done it because of
circumstances, even though you might project your decision and your
action out there in order not to have to take responsibility for it.

But the fact is that you have said, you have defined the situation in
such a way that you say to yourself, “I have no choice but to do what I
don’t want to do, and so I am going to do what I don’t want to do.” And
many times, what you choose to do is not principled. And so, you’re
going against your very own principles and you feel coerced. Naturally
you feel coerced by the circumstances to act inconsistently with your
own integrity. And then, once you blame your circumstances, that is
where you let your fear erupt and be expressed.

But you must not forget that the reason you are behaving the way you are
behaving is because you have defined the situation such that, you say,
“I have no other choice. My circumstances require me to be unprincipled.
My circumstances require me to break the law. My circumstances require
me to behave, let us say, in an ugly way because I am so frustrated by
my circumstances.” When the fact is that you are frustrated because you
have defined the situation, and believed your definition, and said you
have no other choice than to behave in a way that is upsetting to you.

If you remember that it’s your definition and your choice, and that
there are other definitions of what’s going on available to you, then
you will be empowered to make a change, and not be required to blame
circumstances.

Continue.

Whenever there is fear, it is because you have not made up your mind.
Your mind is therefore split, and your behavior inevitably becomes
erratic.  

That’s called sitting on the fence.

Continue . . .

Correcting at the behavioral level can shift the error from the first to
the second type, but will not obliterate the fear.  

Why? Because the only thing that will obliterate the fear is to stop
looking at everything all by yourself and giving it all the definitions
you’re giving it. Again, the only thing that will correct the fear is
turning back to the Altar.

Continue . . .

It is possible to reach a state in which you bring your mind under my
guidance . . .  

. . . oh no! There it is again. Bring your thoughts under my Guidance.
It’s getting monotonous, isn’t it? But what is getting monotonous is
pure simplicity. It’s reminding you that the answer isn’t complicated.
And when you reach for my Guidance, you are, in effect, turning back to
the Altar. You are choosing not to be independent. You are choosing to
join. Joining occurs as a result of your connection with the Altar in
the middle of you.

Continue. Start the sentence over.

It is possible to reach a state in which you bring your mind under my
guidance without conscious effort, but this implies a willingness that
you have not developed as yet. The Holy Spirit cannot ask more than you
are willing to do. The strength to do comes from your undivided
decision. There is no strain in doing God’s Will as soon as you
recognize that it is also your own.  

Now, the recognition that it is also your own, might not come until your
distress caused by your insistence to look at everything by yourself has
become so uncomfortable that you arrive at a point where you experience
the meaning of the words, “There must be another way.” You might not
have the slightest idea what the other way is. But, when you arrive at
that point, you face the option of abandoning your convictions and your
willfulness, and reach out for help, which again is turning toward the
Altar to break the isolation. There must be another way and you don’t
know what it is, but you know that you cannot persist in your commitment
to looking at everything by yourself.

Continue . . .

The lesson here is quite simple, but particularly apt to be overlooked.
I will therefore repeat it, urging you to listen. Only your mind can
produce fear.  

Let’s emphasize the word “your.” Only your mind can produce fear.

Continue . . .

It does so whenever it is conflicted in what it wants, producing
inevitable strain because wanting and doing are discordant. This can be
corrected only by accepting a unified goal.  

Yes.  Continue . . .

The first corrective step in undoing the error is to know first that the
conflict is an expression of fear.  

Now this applies to any conflict of any kind.  Continue . . .

Say to yourself that you must somehow have chosen not to love, or the
fear could not have arisen. Then the whole process of correction becomes
nothing more than a series of pragmatic steps in the larger process of
accepting the Atonement as the remedy. These steps may be summarized in
this way:

“Know first that this is fear.  Fear arises from lack of love.  The only
remedy for lack of love is perfect love.  Perfect love is the
Atonement.”

And the Atonement is only available to you as an experience when you are
willing to abandon what you are seeing as the world out there, and going
within into the silence, and asking for help of God, of the Holy Spirit,
of Me, of your Guide. It is one simple answer.

The biggest aspect of it is that you must be willing to set aside what
seemed so all-fired important to you to be afraid of, to set aside all
of the thoughts you have about it, to set aside all of the hurt feelings
that you have about it, and to let your mind become still so that when
you say “help” and you reach out and break the disconnection, you can
hear and feel the response, the embrace, the Clarity, the Love that will
infill you and re-inspire you to Love.

Continue . . .

I have emphasized that the miracle, or the expression of Atonement, is
always a sign of respect from the worthy to the worthy.  

Now, I would suggest that you not start this with you and someone else
quote “in the world,” but that you start this with yourself and with
your Guide; yourself and with Me; yourself and with the Holy Spirit;
yourself and with God. There will be less argument, less resistance from
you if you will do this.

And the response you get will acknowledge your worthiness, and inspire
the experience of your worthiness in you, and will then prepare you to
turn to your Brother or Sister looking for, sending out the messengers
for, that will come back to you and confirm to you your Brother’s or
Sister’s worthiness, which will then set into motion the circumstances,
the dynamics, that will allow your Brother or Sister to be inspired
experientially with an experience of their own worth, and thereby have
the capacity to recognize and acknowledge in you, your worth.

Continue . . .

The recognition of this worth is re-established by the Atonement. It is
obvious, then, that when you are afraid, you have placed yourself in a
position where you need Atonement.  

That position is with your back to the Altar.  Continue . . .

You have done something loveless, having chosen without love. This is
precisely the situation for which the Atonement was offered. The need
for the remedy inspired its establishment.  

Even more than that, the fact that it is impossible for you to become
something you are not, established the fact that you must, sooner or
later, remember that fact, so that everything that follows your having
turned your back on the Altar, will serve to be that which will lead you
to turn around once again. It’s inevitable because What God Has Made
cannot be undone.

Continue . . .

The need for the remedy inspired its establishment. As long as you
recognize only the need for the remedy, you will remain fearful.
However, as soon as you accept the remedy, you have abolished the fear.
This is how true healing occurs.  

Yes.  Pardon.

[in the background] Let’s speak to that one moment.2

Someone has asked me to speak to that.

As long as you recognize only the need for the remedy, you will remain
fearful. However, as soon as you accept the remedy, you have abolished
the fear.  

How many of you have had the experience of having a serious,
frightening, upsetting, disturbing problem, and you do turn to God, or
you do turn to your Guide or the Holy Spirit, and you pour out your
heart, and you tell them what your problem is, and you go on, and on,
and on, describing just how bad the situation is, what the dynamics are,
what your best perception of the situation is, and you don’t shut up
long enough to hear the answer because you are so preoccupied with the
problem and all of its multiplicity of dynamics? That’s it in a
nutshell. As long as you recognize only the need, as long as you will
let only the need fill your mind even when you’re asking for help, you
will not be in a receptive mode to hear the answer.

So, be aware of the need, express the need briefly, and then shut up and
listen. And listen as long as it takes to hear the answer. And if it
doesn’t come tonight, then your next free moment or your next free hour
continue, and persist listening for the answer without rehearsing, and
rehearsing, and rehearsing the problem. Devote yourself to the joining
with the Father, or the Holy Spirit, expecting the answer.

Microphone.

With that in mind, the recommendation that you just gave to start with
yourself rather than other individuals.

Start with yourself and the Holy Spirit.

And the Holy Spirit.

Rather than yourself and your fellowman.

I see. Right.

Whereas so much of conflict can come from a result of relationship.
Someone else pushing your button. Holy Spirit using your Brother to push
your button. And you’re trying to understand it, or one is trying to
understand it. The need is there, but the complexity . . . I’m not sure
I’m being clear. When in relationship, conflict can be more prevalent,
appropriately dealt with, or brought to surface. To back away from that
and just look at your own fears. The fear of attack. The fear of lack of
love.

No! No! No! I didn’t say to bring your attention to yourself and your
psychology. I told you to bring your attention to the Father, bring your
attention to the Holy Spirit. Bring your attention to someone other than
the one you’re having problem with. In other words, bring your attention
to someone whom you do not have to be defended against so that you might
become defenseless.

It’s that separation, that dividing.

Pardon.

That being in conflict. The stopping and saying, “I need to turn to my
Guide.”

Exactly.

And not engage in the rhetoric, as you explain it. It’s that fear of
attack which I know the Course . . . or the experience of perceived
attack that I believe makes this simple thing not easy.

That is correct. But perceived attack is the only way you can see any
part of the Kingdom of Heaven when you are looking at it all by
yourself.

Because if you are facing the Altar, in touch, then you will not
misperceive the misperceived attack.

You will not misperceive an attack where there is none. And you will see
What Is Really There. And the Vision of What Is Really There that is
provided to you, will cause you to behave with Love in that direction,
which is the Atonement.

I’m working with the perceived attack.

That’s the problem.

I’m trying to separate from that. Is there any . . .

You separate from it by withdrawing your attention from it, and
redirecting your attention to the Altar within, to the Holy Spirit, to
me. You arrive at a point where you say to yourself, “It is less
important to me to defend myself against the attack than to be in
communion with a Brother whose Spirit and Presence will fill me with the
experience of my Invulnerability, the experience of my Divinity, the
experience of my utter safety, so that I might completely abandon the
use of fear. And so that I might completely abandon any inclination to
attack in defense of myself.” You see? So that then you might be in a
spontaneous, inspired frame of mind to behave in a new way with this one
you had seen as attacking you.

And if indeed this Brother or Sister who you had seen as attacking you,
if indeed he or she was behaving out of fear as well, your benign
Presence and the Gift of Love that you bring to him or her, will lay the
groundwork for them to feel safe enough to abandon their fear as well,
and have the situation transformed.

And that’s Reality. That is the purpose of the moment.

That is correct.

Is that correct?

That is correct.

It is utterly simple. It only seems difficult because you are so
convinced of the way you are perceiving things, having forgotten that
everything you perceive will be perceived improperly as long as you are
looking at it all alone, having your back to the Altar. So, no apparent
threat that you experience is valid. It is the inevitable result of
having said, “Father, I’d rather look at it myself. Father, I would
rather look at it all by myself. Father, I’d rather look at and
determine for myself what it is.” You see?

I understand. Thank you.

You are welcome.

That’s a big statement that shocks the sensibilities: No apparent threat
is valid.

Thank God someone is saying it.

So in any situation where I think I’m being attacked, I’m wrong? In any
situation . . .

Lets put it this way. In any situation where you think hate is being
expressed, you are wrong. As the Course says, everything that’s
happening is either Love, or a call for Love. So when you see attack,
what is really going on is a call for Love.

What Is Really Going On is a request for someone to see that the fear
that is motivating the attack is invalid, and the desire to feel and
know that it is invalid. The behavior seems to call for defense, but
what will solve the problem of the apparent attack is a Presence of
fearlessness, a Presence of Peace, the Presence of Love that conveys one
way or another that the behavior is not frightening. And therefore, your
Brother is not frightening, even though he is behaving in a way that is
attempting to engender fear.

So the proper response to an apparent threat is to deny the validity of
that apparent threat.

Indeed. You deny it and you go within and ask to be filled with the
appropriate response… the appropriate response to the call for Love. In
other words, the form of Love that will completely obliterate the fear
that has engendered an aggressive act, a show of hate.

Anyone who is expressing hate is experiencing a severe lack of
self-appreciation, of self-worth, a complete lack of his or her being
lovable. And the attack is a completely distorted way of saying, “Look
at me. I am better than I think I am. I am better than I think the world
thinks I am. I do not deserve to be suffering like this.” But those
kinds of intelligent words aren’t what come out. What comes out is
hateful words expressed toward you, distress with you, slanders on your
character.

But if you are able to stand there recognizing, because you’ve turned
toward the Altar, that this is a call for Love, and you are at the very
least unmoved by the behavior, still in your peace, you have conveyed
silently something extremely important to the person in such a great
state of fear that he would ask for help through an act of hate. And
that is that who he is, and how he is feeling, and how he is behaving,
is not disturbing to you, and therefore maybe, because you aren’t
confirming his awfulness to him, maybe there’s another way to look at
himself in which he isn’t awful. And the moment [snap of the fingers] a
glimmer of that occurs within him, he is able to abandon his commitment
to his conviction that he has justification for fear, and communication
can open. And when you continue to be the Presence of calm Intelligence
and Love, and he feels your benign-ness, he is able to relax and, you
might say, warm up to you.

So, does that answer your question?

Yes.

Okay.

So, taking this just a little bit further, so okay, we’re like we’re
doing it with the Holy Spirit, and we’re doing it one-on-one with people
who want to attack us. Let’s say you’re in a group of people and they
are attacking one another, or that’s what it’s looking like to me, so I
have to go and turn toward the Altar and try to, you know, be in my
Peace. Right? [laughing] That’s really hard to do.

And even when I do that, sometimes it really feels like I’m not making
any difference, or contributing in any way to these people that I care
about a lot, who I’m seeing having distress with one another.

Well, one way in which you are helping is that out of the group of
people, there is one fewer of that group contributing to the insanity.
And by your withdrawal of your participation, it’s that much more
difficult for everyone else to maintain the chaos.

Now, you don’t do this so that you can have control and make a healing
happen. You do it because you are remembering your Function, even if
everyone else has not remembered theirs. It’s that simple.

It’s a really different way to be with people than we’ve been with
people, though. I mean I feel like it’s kind of like to be like with you
first, and like receiving your tone, kind of. And, but, sometimes to
people it looks like you don’t give a shit, or, you know, you’re
withdrawing, or, you know, you’re not playing with them the way you used
to, or . . .

That is correct. And you must . . .

[laughing] And then they really try to get you in.

Yes. And you must . . . you must understand what’s happening and let
them go through their withdrawal pains, if you want to call it that—the
experience of not having you as their drug of choice that continues
their misperceptions.

I guess I . . . I guess it brings up a lot of feelings of inadequacy of
how to answer the call for Love, I guess.

That’s because everyone who is engaged in attacking each other is
feeling a sense of potential power in converting and changing the other.
And what you are doing is not being done for the purpose of changing
anyone. And so, because you’ve just stepped out of that arena of the
exertion of power for the purpose of changing each other, it feels like
you have moved into a place of powerlessness.

But you have moved into a place of what I’m going to call Infinite
Groundedness. And as each one of you makes that choice to be in that
place of Infinite Groundedness, you provide what I’m going to call a
leverage against the dream that far exceeds the little bit of
willingness that you were able to bring to the process. Because what you
find yourself joined with is Infinite.

I think sometimes I have wanted them to change, though.

Pardon.

I think sometimes I have wanted them to change, and that’s probably what
I’m wrestling with it. Right? It’s kind of like you turn toward the
Altar and you feel that kind of Groundedness and Infinite . . . like
you’re saying. And then you turn back and see all this chaos. So, try to
muck around in it, change them, say a few good things. That doesn’t
work. You know, it’s kind of this . . .

And since you’re moving out of an arena in which changing each other is
the modus operandi, it’s easy to think that turning to the Altar is a
new and better way to change everyone.

[laughs] Right.

And when that doesn’t happen, you wonder what has gone wrong.

Remember, the more who are Awake, the more difficult it is for those who
are asleep to continue dreaming dreams. And so it might not seem
immediately rewarding in the larger picture to have made the choice for
your Peace, to have returned to your Function, and to do it because it
simply is your Divine Function, and not because of some power it gives
you to be a force for good in the illusion. You see?

Okay.

Raj, turning to the Altar also means surrendering in that moment. And in
surrendering, we join. And then by joining . . .

Well, joining is you surrendering your autonomy. Yes.

Okay. Okay. Right. But I mean, they are one and the same?

Yes.

And in the Course it also says, and this really hit me hard, is that
anything that we perceive lacking in any situation is what we haven’t
brought to the situation. And so that goes along with what we’re talking
about here. And so joining, or turning to the Altar, means that not only
do we surrender, but that we trust that God is in charge of the
situation.

Surrender doesn’t occur without trust.

Okay. All right. That’s a good point because they have to be all
combined here.

Indeed.

And I also remember you stating that if—and I think it was last week—but
I wasn’t here to hear it, but I heard it, but I read it—that if we would
allow you to control, to guide us in all that is meaningful, you will
take care of all that is meaningless.

Yes.

So that would apply in this kind of a situation.

Of course.

And so trusting that the Holy Spirit is in charge also means that the
Holy Spirit is in charge in the other person, too.

Of course.

Well, I’m just clarifying how this works.

Indeed.

So it’s very important to trust. Surrender.

Yes. That is the element of charity that was discussed last week.
Because charity acknowledges that another is further ahead than where
their behavior indicates they are.

Ah. You are appealing to the best in them. Or you’re addressing the
highest in them.

You are acknowledging the highest in them. When you acknowledge that the
Holy Spirit is in charge of them as well, you are acknowledging
something that is apparently beyond their present sense of themselves,
and beyond what their behavior is indicating their point of growth is.
So yes.

Now mind you, we’re not talking about an intellectual acknowledgement of
the Holy Spirit being in charge. Because when you turn to the Altar and
you are infilled with the Father’s Love, you know that the Holy Spirit
is in charge of them, that the Father’s Love is embracing them as well.
What you find yourself knowing about yourself, you know is utterly True
about your Brother, and so you are acknowledging a point they don’t seem
to have grown to yet. And that is charity.

So what they observe is you in your Peace, in your unruffled attitude,
and in your confidence in them.

Yes.

And then you take care of all that’s meaningless.

That is correct.

Okay. Thank you.

And you won’t know what is meaningless until you’ve taken these steps.

Okay.

Okay, I took some of the things you said last week and kind of twisted
them all around. But it seems to be really working for me. So I was
thinking that what I’m doing here is taking the world of form, these
things I’m seeing with my eyes, and I’m substituting those things for
What’s Real. And by thinking that that’s what’s real—this person
attacking me, all this stuff—I’m giving life to it with my mind.

Now have I wandered down off the track again?

No. That is quite correct.

Okay. So . . .

What you’ve given life to is your misperception.

Yeah.

Yes.

Right, by believing this hideous person is being an idiot.

Because I’ve been stopping some of that and noticing some of these
people are really nice after all. [laughing] So it’s really working for
me. And I can see from what you’re saying that I really need to spend
more time asking to see What Is Real. I’m kind of stuck. Part of me is
really, really glad to just let go, and know that what I’m not seeing
What’s Real. But then, like you said, I want to see something really
great happen. And sometimes nothing really happens, and it’s like, “Oh,
well.” I don’t know what my question is. Never mind.

Well, it’s a wonderful starting point to say, “what I’m seeing isn’t
Real,” because that makes it clear to you that you don’t know What It
Is.

Exactly.

And if you don’t know What It Is, you can’t help but have a curiosity
begin to form as to What It Is. And so, sooner or later, you are going
to arrive at the point where that curiosity has grown enough for it to
be felt by you, and you’ll say, “Oh, well okay. I got a certain amount
of relief from existing in a world that I was seeing that isn’t Real.
And I have a certain amount of peace from no longer reacting to it. But
I’m sort of in a limbo here. I’m not being terribly disturbed by
anything anymore, but everything is still rather meaningless. And if it
isn’t Real, if the way I’m seeing it is not True, then what is really
going on?” And that’s where the invitation for an infilling from a
Source beyond your best judgments occurs, and you are no longer
isolated. And that’s where the shift in perception begins to happen; the
miracle. So take it all the way.

Yeah. I’ll work on that part, ‘cause the other part has been kind of
fun.

Play with that part. Don’t work on it. Have fun with that part.

I’m too serious.

Have fun with both parts. Do them lightly, but do them.

[laughs] Yes sir. Thank you.

You are welcome.

Okay, let’s . . . one more question.

I just want to try and bring this all full circle for me. Fear
originates in my mind, as you said the emphasis being upon your mind
here.

Yes.

That is where fear originates.

Yes.

Now, and feeling fearful is never valid, and seeing threat is never
valid.

Now, I usually think I see threat when I presume that my Brother is
acting fearful. So I think I see fear in my Brother and I interpret that
as threat to myself, but the fear cannot be in my Brother because the
fear is within my mind. And by assuming that my Brother is acting
fearfully, instead of acting as a result of his Guidance of the Holy
Spirit, is what makes the invalid image of threat seem real to me?

No. Your Brother may well be feeling fear. And his behavior may well be
stemming from the fear he is experiencing, because he has his back to
the Altar. Whether or not his behavior based on his fear creates fear in
you, depends on whether you have your back to the Altar.

And not acknowledging that he and I are both just puppets, and there is
no will that opposes God that would be threatening to me?

What I want everyone to be careful of is theoretical or intellectual
acknowledgements.

You can make that educated acknowledgement about your Brother, but it
will lack the unction of Love that comes from having turned toward the
Altar yourself, and having been infilled with the Father’s Love yourself
that constitutes the Gift that you will spontaneously extend to your
Brother, because you can’t contain it yourself. And thereby, you might
say, declare that the two of you are incapable of being governed by
fear. You see what I’m saying?

At this point, yes. I think we’ll go further when we have a chance.

Your employment of fear cannot cause your Brother to behave in an attack
mode. Your Brothers and Sisters are not the puppet of your
misperception.

And there is no will in opposition to God’s.

That is absolutely correct.

And when I presume threat, I’m thinking that there is a will in
opposition to God’s that is obviously guiding my Brother in his threat
towards me.

And you wouldn’t do that if you were not asserting a will of your own by
not being connected to the Altar.

Yes. And so again, feeling threat or seeing fear should be utilized as a
reminder that I have turned away from the Altar. And if I utilize the
reminder to turn back to the Altar, the feeling of threat and the fear
will disappear into the vaporous nothingness that it ever was.

Yes. And you will look at your Brother who may still be behaving on the
basis of his severe fear, and you will know how to be the presence that
alleviates it.

Respond appropriately because I did turn to the Altar to see what would
be appropriate.

Exactly. Exactly.

Thank you.

It’s very important to understand that no one and no thing in your world
becomes the puppet of your misperceptions. So when someone else is
behaving poorly, you cannot say, “Well. It’s my fault. I’m perceiving
it.” No.

When you turn to the Altar and you are warmed by the Glow of Love that
is the Father’s Love being the very Fire of You—because ultimately the
Fire in the Altar, the Light in the Altar, is your Essential Being—in
turning to that, it doesn’t eradicate your Brother’s ignorance. And you
will still see a call for Love. But you will see it as a call for Love,
and you will respond with Love. And the response with Love is what will
be transformational, is what will be the trigger for the miracle.

So your Brothers and Sisters are never acting out your dream. You are
not responsible for your Brother’s poor behavior. But your poor response
to his poor behavior is your responsibility to correct. Because your
poor response will confirm his poor response. And it will be the blind
leading the blind and falling into the ditch.

So if I react fearful to my perception of his fearful threat to me, then
what we have just done is created a mutually-agreed-upon definition.

Exactly.

I got it.

And then you will defend yourselves against each other, and confirm that
mutually-agreed-upon definition even more completely.

Yes.

You have it.  Okay, let’s continue.  Oh.

Okay, we’ve got I’m going to assume that, if we could, we chose to
always face the Altar and we are calling for this infilling Love and
Peace. And we’re going through our day, and a Brother comes up with what
we perceive as an attack, and we’re hooked. We’re turned from the Altar.
That’s the dynamics.

Yes.

Could we talk . . .

That’s one of the possibilities. Yes.

Okay. But, you know, providing that we all have a little willingness,
and we all want to do what we’re asked to do, and we’re . . . okay so
we’re mind set, body set, you know. We’re going through our day
peaceful, and all of a sudden “bam!” You know, we’re hooked. And we’re
obviously jerked from the Altar. Help us at that moment.

Remember you jerk yourself away from the Altar.

Well, okay. All right. Yes. Is that . . . but we have the willingness.
We have the intent. We have the knowing. And we’re still pulled. Okay.

That’s okay.

Or we’re hooked or something. But what I’m trying to say . . .

It is a well established habit.

I understand.

Yes.

But most of us are hooked faster than we can count to ten.

Yes.

Okay. Before we can realize it, because of our ignorance, or our habit,
or whatever you . . .

Yes [??].

So, and we don’t have time to sit down and listen right at that moment.
We could take time if we didn’t get hooked, you know. So help us with
that moment. That the willingness has not gone away. The wanting has not
gone away. The behavior has not gone away. It’s that we’re hooked! So is
there some insight you can give to us to say, “Respond I love you.” Or
respond, you know, is there a way we can see it another way faster than
we are now?

Only through practice.

It’s like doing a meditation and you say your mantra, and somewhere
along the line you start thinking a thought. And at some point you
realize, “Oh, I’m not saying my mantra.” And you go back to your mantra.
You let the thought go till after your meditation and you get back to
your mantra. The more you meditate, the less frequently thoughts arise,
and when they do arise, the more quickly you recognize that you’ve lost
the mantra and return to it. Through practice, the length of time it
takes from when you are suddenly caught off-guard to the point where you
recognize that you are caught off-guard, that will shorten.

There’s no way to get around the fact that the call for a change in your
experience will require you to stop and take a moment, or take a few
moments, to choose for your Peace again. There is some point in the
vigorous interchange where you are actually going to have to stop
participating in it, even if you have to say, “Excuse me. I’ve got to go
to the lavatory.”

That’s the shortening.

Yes.

The engagement. We may continue the engagement. We’re going to recognize
it sooner. We shouldn’t start from the expectation that we’re going to
recognize it and therefore it’s not going to happen.

Yes. You’re going to have to break the pattern somehow. And another way
it might be is that you will say right to the person you’re in this
vigorous interchange with, “Wait a minute. I’ve lost my perspective
here. Just a moment, because I don’t choose to proceed in this fashion
because it’s not getting us to the solution.”

[in the background] That’ll mess up a good fight. [audience laughter]

Someone said, “Ah, that’ll mess up a good fight.” [audience laughter]

Ah, yes.

[in the background] May I just say one more thing?

You will have to . . . you will have to. I don’t mean . . . you will
have to almost physically take the moment to stop what you’re engaged
in, to become still enough to make a new choice, and proceed with what
is really going to contribute to resolution.

[in the background] I was trying to do it before I got hooked, but
getting hooked and then not pursuing it seems a little more valuable.

Oh. Say it one more time.

[with the mic now] Okay. I was trying to not get hooked. But what you’ve
said is I’m going to get hooked, but I don’t have to maintain that
hookedness. That’s where the diminished effort . . . the destructive
will diminish.

That’s correct.

Okay. I think that’s very important that . . .

Yes.

We come as . . .

If you are used to thinking, which all of you are, when you start
meditating, when you start learning meditation, you find that it’s very
hard to not think for any length of time, just because that’s the
prevailing habit. But in your persistence in meditating, you arrive at a
point where you have longer and longer periods of silence—something you
never dreamed was a possible experience.

I think . . . yeah. Thank you.

In the process of learning, you can’t afford to criticize yourself for
thinking. Thinking is going to happen because it’s the prevailing habit.
Getting hooked is going to happen because defense is the prevailing
habit. It’s the inevitable habit of being when your back is turned
toward the Altar, and the Kingdom of Heaven looks as though it has no
Source and is all happenstance. And because it’s happenstance, it’s not
dependable. And because it’s not dependable, it’s potentially
threatening to your well-being. Therefore, existence is an ongoing state
of defense. You see?

So it’s the prevailing habit. And as you begin to break it, it’s going
to hook you. So you say, “Okay.” And then you take each time you’re
hooked as the opportunity to choose once again, instead of just playing
it out to the bitter end. And then you take whatever moments it takes to
actually shift gears. And you do it because you know, and you will know
more and more clearly as you do this, because you know that in not
playing out the old habit of defense, you actually come to resolutions.
It’s productive, you might say. And it’s therefore totally reasonable to
engage in what is productive where everyone benefits.

Okay.

Raj, I want to point out something that as I’ve experienced. And that is
if I meditate, I have noticed if and after, if an attack comes, it
doesn’t penetrate. It’s like there’s an invisible shield. But if I
hesitate too long and think about what I think I’m perceiving, then, oh,
I’m hooked. But there is a moment there where there is a shield.

Indeed.

Where it bounces off.

It’s similar to if you’ve had a lack of sleep, your temper is shorter
than when you’re well rested. Yes.

So I found that is really vitally important in helping break these
habits.

And so, the practice of meditation on a regular basis can enhance your
restedness, your . . .

The pause.

. . . your centeredness, so that the shield, as it were, the decreased
inclination to react can be enjoyed more. Yes.

Yeah. I think that’s really important. A really important point. Thanks.

It is a valuable tool. Yes.

Thank you.

Taking five or ten minutes to be with your Guide has the same wonderful
benefit.

Okay. Let us continue . . .

Everyone experiences fear. Yet it would take very little right-thinking
to realize why fear occurs. Few appreciate the real power of the mind,
and no one remains fully aware of it all the time. However, if you hope
to spare yourself from fear there are some things you must realize, and
realize fully. The mind is very powerful, and never loses its creative
force. It never sleeps. Every instant it is creating. It is hard to
recognize that thought and belief combine into a power surge that can
literally move mountains.  

Now let’s stop there.

The mind is very powerful, and never loses its creative force.  

What I want you not to get hooked on is the word “creative,” because
creative is so closely aligned with Creation, and all of you, your egos,
love the idea of becoming co-creators with God.

As you read this:

The mind is very powerful, and never loses its creative force.
  
Think of “creative” in terms of there being a manifestation. So, you
become fearful and your heart begins to race. Ah! Something physical.
Something measurable. Your Mind has had an effect that is measurable.
There has been a manifestation of the fear.

 I’ll tell you something though. Fear cannot create for its defense.
 Let’s put it this way. The use of fear in your mind for the purpose of
 defense, cannot cause a gun or a knife to manifest on the table in
 front of you for you to protect yourself with. So, creativeness,
 creation, which would be the case if a gun or a knife appeared on the
 table that hadn’t been there before, creation of that sort is not what
 this is referring to.

Understand that your Mind is always having an effect. What you’re
thinking is always having an effect.

And, when you choose for your Peace and you let it in and you feel it,
your heart beat slows down. Your blood pressure drops. Physically your
body begins to function more efficiently. There is an effect. In that
sense it is creative. We’re talking about that there is always a
Manifestation of your Mind.

Continue . . .

It appears at first glance that to believe such power about yourself is
arrogant, but that is not the real reason you do not believe it. You
prefer to believe that your thoughts cannot exert real influence because
you are actually afraid of them. This may allay awareness of the guilt,
but at the cost of perceiving the mind as impotent. If you believe that
what you think is ineffectual you may cease to be afraid of it, but you
are hardly likely to respect it. There are no idle thoughts. All
thinking produces form at some level.  

Indeed. It produces form by affecting form.

If you believe that what you think is ineffectual you may cease to be
afraid of it, but you are hardly likely to respect it.  

I will tell you that one of the reasons that Paul is reluctant to let me
respond to everything, is because he is afraid that if he does,
everything that he will be about will be profoundly meaningful and have
its effects. And there is something in him that does not . . . in his
ego perception, that does not want to influence others. He is afraid
that the result of joining with me completely, which in effect is the
same as turning toward the Altar and making commitment to it completely,
is going to result in something that will be—you see, he doesn’t even
want to hear the words—something that will be profoundly meaningful. And
those are not the words I want to use.

Nevertheless, he is afraid of being of what it would mean to be the
focal point for that kind of meaningfulness. So in effect, he is afraid
of joining with me completely because it would constitute a joining with
all of you completely that would have a profound effect, which would
naturally be an Experience of the Atonement and would therefore be
utterly beneficial for everyone involved. But then, as his ego perceives
it, that would be a matter of being extremely influential. And he is not
totally aware of the devotion which is part of his mutually-agreed-upon
definitions to everyone’s right to make their own discoveries for
themselves without help.

And yet, inconsistent as it is, he is willing to do it from time to
time, for an hour and a half every Thursday night, and perhaps six hours
two days in a row once a month, knowing that there is blessing involved.
But I will tell you . . . and I am sharing this with you because this
isn’t so different from everyone’s fear, and one of the reasons every
single one of you choose to remain tiny and never really know the Truth.
Because discussing what the truth might be and debating it and rolling
all of the possibilities over in your mind is so invigorating, and saves
you from having to be significant yourselves. He doesn’t mind doing it
occasionally, but he knows that if he makes commitment to me, to the
Altar, totally, it will be like going from one cylinder on a 16-cylinder
engine to all sixteen cylinders. [audience amused] So I use him as an
example for his elucidation as well as yours.

You really do all use fear as a way of avoiding being the significant
Presence of God that you are, if you would just let God in completely.
And that’s what the Atonement is about.

Yes. Microphone.

Just for the benefit of all of us about being at the Altar all the time,
or Paul making commitment, or any of us making commitment, isn’t it a
lie though that we would be the focal point? Isn’t it that really the
Kingdom would be the focal point? We’d just be the space where it
happens.

That is correct.

‘Cause that’s the fear. It’s going to be all about me, or I’m going to
get it, or I don’t know, you know. But it’s personal.

That is correct.

And that the devotion itself undoes that whole personal issue. It’s just
not where my focus would be anymore.

That is correct. Again, it’s because the personal sense each of you has
of yourself is the prevailing habit that you will be emerging from. And
so your feelings about your tininess tend to be carried over in your
imagination about the Experience of being Whole. All of you have your
little places you get hooked. The necessity is to persist anyway. And
that Paul does.

And this is where we will end for tonight. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you very much.

You are welcome.

Chapter 2 – THE ILLUSION OF SEPARATION – Section: FEAR IS LACK OF LOVE
(Raj did not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July 2003)
Sparkly Book – p.36, 3rd Full Par.   /   JCIM – p.15, 8th Full Par.   /
CIMS – p.32, Par.77 Chapter 2 – THE SEPARATION AND ATONEMENT – Section:
FEAR AND CONFLICT 1First Edition  –  p. 25   /    Second Edition – p.29,
Par. 5 2 Students – commenting or asking a question.
