---
title: Mar 6, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good evening.  We will go directly to the book. And again for those in
the second edition, we’re on page 33 section VIII, “The Meaning of the
Last Judgment.” And for those in the first edition it’s on page 29. Go
ahead . . .

THE MEANING OF THE LAST JUDGMENT1  

One of the ways in which you can correct the magic-miracle confusion is
to remember that you did not create yourself.  

Ah . . . that’s because when you engage in what would be called magic,
it amounts to you thinking that you exist in your own right, on your
own, independent, and that in that state you have a capacity to make
things happen. In other words, you are god, you are the creator. And
whatever you believe that you create is only an effect of magic, and
it’s an illusion.

The miracle, on the other hand, is the result of your not standing
separate, not thinking that you exist in your own right separate and
independent, and having no capacity whatsoever to act on your own. In
other words, you are not God, but God is all there is of you. And in
this perspective and in this state of mind, your very Being is
expressing the meaning of the statement “Thy Will be done, Father.”  And
you’re in a State of Listening, in a State of Union, in a State of
Communion with God, which is your natural State of Being. It’s the only
State of Being you have.

From there, because of your union and because of your yielding to the
Father’s Will, His Will becomes yours. And you act out the Presence of
God. You embody God. You give expression to God. And when you begin to
do that as you are waking up, the result is what is called a miracle—a
sudden shift of perception in you that, as I’ve said before, causes you
to behave in a new way, embody in a new way, no longer embodying magic
or illusion. So, if you can all dare to consider the possibility that
not only did you not create yourself, but your parents didn’t create you
either, and that if there’s anything there at all right where you are,
it’s God being All There Is of you, then confusion will leave, and what
is embodied will be cohesive, will be unified, perfect, lovely,
harmonizing. Everything you do will fit into the Wholeness of Creation
as an integral part of the Wholeness of Creation. And you will see the
happy dream begin to be manifested in the world.

Again, the key lies in daring to consider the possibility that you are
not self-created, and that you are not what you have come to the
conclusion that you are based upon your ability to think and reason and
come to conclusions. You are not self-created. Your existence is
entirely God-derived.

Continue . . .

You are apt to forget this when you become egocentric, and this puts you
in a position where a belief in magic is virtually inevitable.  

In fact, it’s not only inevitable, it’s going to seem to you to be
absolutely necessary in order for you to survive.

Continue . . .

Your will to create was given you by your Creator, Who was expressing
the same Will in His creation. Since creative ability rests in the mind,
everything you create is necessarily a matter of will. It also follows
that whatever you alone make is real in your own sight, though not in
the Mind of God. This basic distinction leads directly into the real
meaning of the Last Judgment.  

Since creative ability rests in the mind and we’ve talked before about
the fact that there are no idle thoughts, every thought you have has an
effect, whether Real or not.

Everything you create is necessarily a matter of will. And I’d like to
make a little distinction here. When you are behaving as though you are
self-created, the word “will,” the word “willfulness” is what describes
the mode of your creativity. When you are joined with the Father and not
claiming a right to any independent act of will, the word “willingness”
is the best expression of the way in which you create, because you are
willing to let the Father embody Himself in you as you, and let that
find expression in your every act. So it’s a different kind of will.

Another distinction that needs to be made is that willfulness always
embodies your fear and acts out defense. Whereas when you are joined
with the Father and claiming no separate right to act on your own, your
acts embody, embrace inclusion, Love, and constitute the extension of
healing.

Let us continue . . .

The Last Judgment is one of the most threatening ideas in your thinking.
This is because you do not understand it. Judgment is not an attribute
of God. It was brought into being only after the separation, when it
became one of the many learning devices to be built into the overall
plan.  

The overall plan of reawakening. Indeed.

Just as the separation occurred over millions of years, the Last
Judgment will extend over a similarly long period, and perhaps an even
longer one.  

Now, I’m going to interrupt here because that can sound very
discouraging. But I’m going to mention this. Once you awaken, you will
make true judgments all the time, because that is natural to you. To
recognize What Is True and nothing else, constitutes the very Nature of
Being, with a capital “B”, your True Being. And just as a habit isn’t
dropped lightly and requires of you persistence as a new habit develops,
you will find yourself consciously practicing judgment—meaning the
recognition of What Is Of Value and nothing else. You will do that with
persistence. But not because you’re any longer overcoming an inclination
to go back to the old habit. It will seem to go on for a great deal of
time. That’s what it means, “until time leaves your awareness, until
time is abolished.”

So don’t be discouraged. Hitler is awake now. I am awake now. All of
your Guides are awake now. Awakening can happen now. So do not be
discouraged by this. It is not meant to discourage you.

Continue . . .

(said this): The length of the Last Judgment, however, can . . .

(if reading the first edition, 14th printing): Its length, however, can
. . .

(if reading the second edition): Its length can, however, . .

. . . be greatly shortened by miracles, the device for shortening but
not abolishing time. If a sufficient number become truly miracle-minded,
this shortening process can be virtually immeasurable. It is essential,
however, that you free yourself from fear quickly, because you must
emerge from the conflict if you are to bring peace to other minds.  

And in the second edition it says . . .

It is essential, however, that you free yourself from fear quickly,
because you must emerge from the conflict if you are to bring peace to
other minds.  

Now that’s your job. To bring peace. To bring peace to other minds.

Relinquishing fear, abandoning it, is easy. And everyone who has
meditated has demonstrated this to themselves. Abandoning fear is easy
if you don’t value it. So, abandoning fear so that you find yourself in
your peace is something any of you can do at any moment during any day,
and you can do it as often as you choose. That’s not difficult. That is
not going to take millions of years to accomplish. And so you have the
capacity, all of you, today to access your peace and be available to
bring peace to other minds.

Interesting, isn’t it, that it’s your job to bring peace? You could say
that it’s your job to wage peace, instead of war. And I’ll just take a
moment to be utterly clear here.

Waging peace, bringing peace to the minds of others is accomplished by
saying “No” to everything that is unlike peace. It isn’t just a sweet,
smiling peaceful face and gentle demeanor. It is a gentle spirit capable
of unequivocally saying “No” to that which doesn’t represent peace, to
that which doesn’t embody peace. And then in peace providing an
irresistible invitation to your Brother to join you in that peace and in
the attitude of Love that insures that peace will be embodied further.

I could put it this way. Teachers of Peace are not wimps. Teachers of
Peace are able to stand in the face of calls for Love that appear to be
attack, without being swayed by the presentation, but with the
capability to unswervingly say “No,” an absolute “No” to that which
doesn’t support peace, so that the educational Expression of Love and
Intelligence can occur and transform.

Let’s continue . . .

The Last Judgment is generally thought of as a procedure undertaken by
God. Actually it will be undertaken by my brothers with my help.  

And I’ll tell you right now, that that’s what we’re doing here every
Thursday evening. And that’s what happens every time any one of you
joins with Me or with your Guide. I am helping you discern between What
Is Real and what is not, so that you can choose for What Is and abandon
what is not, withdraw your investment in what is not.

Continue . . .

It is a final healing rather than a meting out of punishment, however
much you may think that punishment is deserved. Punishment is a concept
totally opposed to right-mindedness, and the aim of the Last Judgment is
to restore right-mindedness to you. The Last Judgment might be called a
process of right evaluation.  

Read that sentence again.

The Last Judgment might be called a process of right evaluation.  

And so actually, the word “last” doesn’t mean quite what you thought it
did.

Continue . . .

It simply means that everyone will finally come to understand what is
worthy and what is not.  

Yes. In other words, you will spontaneously and easily make the
distinction between What Is Worthy and what is not. You will be able to
distinguish the tares from the wheat.

Continue . . .

After this, the ability to choose can be directed rationally.  

Now you hear people throwing around the idea of distinguishing the tares
from the wheat. And you wait until the tares and the wheat are full
grown because that’s when you can finally recognize the difference. When
they’re young, they all look the same. And so, if you try to separate it
then, you will throw out the good with the bad.

You have distinguish between the tares and the wheat, and then what? You
have to separate the tares from the wheat. An act occurs. A decision
that governs your actions occurs. And in this case, the action is your
withdrawal of your investment of faith in what has no value, even if
everyone else mutually agrees that what you are abandoning is of value
still.

Continue . . .

Until this distinction is made, however, the vacillations between free
and imprisoned will cannot but continue.  

Important point. Until this distinction is made vacillations between
free will and imprisoned will, will continue. You will still be confused
and what you embody will manifest that confusion.

Essential to awakening is the making of distinctions. This is so
important, especially in the present time when “New Age” thought says,
“Everyone is creating their own world. And it’s not appropriate to
interfere with someone else’s point of view.” It is a laissez-faire
attitude, an “anything goes” attitude where no distinction between What
Is Of Value and what is not is being made. And the result of that is,
for lack of better words, the breakdown of the moral fiber of society.
“Nothing’s right or wrong. Thinking makes it so. Whatever you make up,
hey, that’s your right. Whatever I make up, hey, that’s my right.” But
there is… there is a Groundedness of Being, and the Groundedness of
Being is Truth, What Is True. And if you’re not making any distinction
between What Is True and what you made-up, you’re lost.

And so, in the recognition that awakening requires that distinction be
made, you are going to seem to step on the toes of egos who want the
right to believe anything and to say, “If you don’t think it’s right,
that’s just your opinion. It doesn’t count. It doesn’t matter.” It does
matter.

Now, how are you going to know What Is True? How are you going to make
the distinction? You’re going to have to ask somebody who knows the
difference. You’re going to have to become a student. You’re going to
have to say, “You know, I’m willing to believe that I don’t know What
The Truth Is at the moment, and I want someone who does truly know What
The Truth Is to help me make the distinction.” And that is exactly what
every one of your Guides is for—to help you redefine by distinguishing
correctly between illusions that you think are real, and Realities that
are Real. Because, you know what? You’re not experiencing total
illusion. You’re experiencing Reality mixed in with a lot of
misunderstandings, a lot of mutually-agreed-upon definitions that, in
the end, were made as a defense against knowing the Truth.

So again, awakening isn’t for wimps. It isn’t going to be for the
namby-pamby. It’s going to be for those who are willing to take on the
task of making distinctions where everyone else doesn’t want to make
distinctions. Is that making sense?

Now, that might seem scary if you think it’s your job to convince
everyone else of Truth. You know what? When you ask to know What The
Truth Is of your Guide, of the Holy Spirit, of the Father, and Truth is
uncovered to you, it’s a relief. There’s peace with it. You are relieved
of the fear you were experiencing because you didn’t know What The Truth
Is. And, as I’ve said before, you feel safe. And you know what happens
when you’re feeling safe and you’re not confused? You don’t behave in an
unloving way toward your Brother, or your Sister. Just like you don’t
find me behaving in an unlovely or an unkind way with you.

And so your Presence as you express the Truth is one which makes it
quite possible for the one you’re sharing it with to hear it with fresh
ears, and not be put off by you. Truth that is revealed to you, the
Divine One that You Are, is not something you will hit everyone else
over the head with. There will be no contest to it. So it isn’t a scary
thing if you engage in it.

When you see others “get a hold of the Truth and lay it on ya” [audience
laugh], and you feel the discomfort of that, you might think that if you
got hold of Truth, you’d do the same thing. And you know you don’t want
to do that. And so you might say, “I don’t want to know What The Truth
Is because I don’t want to end up beating everybody over the head with
it.” So, I encourage you to dare to explore listening for the Truth so
it might be revealed to you, so that it might affect the way you behave
in the world, and you become an agent for change without arousing fear
and resistance in your Brothers and Sisters.

Continue . . .

The first step toward freedom involves a sorting out of the false from
the true. This is a process of separation in the constructive sense, and
reflects the true meaning of the Apocalypse.  

Do you know what? There’s only three things God won’t let you have. Only
three things He won’t let you have—sin, disease, and death. The
Apocalypse is the sorting out of those three things so they are sorted
out of your experience.

Of course, you have named, you’ve given definitions to, you have created
for yourself illusions of lots of diseases, lots of sins, and lots of
ways to die. But that really doesn’t complicate anything at all, ‘cause
there are only three things—sin, disease, and death—no matter by how
many names you call it. So again, awakening isn’t as hard as you might
be imagining.

Continue . . .

Everyone will ultimately look upon his own creations and choose to
preserve only what is good, just as God Himself looked upon what He had
created and knew that it was good.  

You see, when you look on the results of your thoughts that were good,
and you see that they are good, you see that they are truly good, you
see that they are eternally good, you’re placing a benediction on them
just as the Father did. “And God saw everything that He had made, and
behold, it was very good.” That’s a benediction. That’s Love. That’s an
Acknowledgment of Truth.

So do you see that the making of the distinction between What’s Of Value
and what isn’t, constitutes a choice that you make where what is
valueless is obviously valueless, and you let go of your valuing of it,
and it’s gone. And What Is Of Value you recognize as Good, as of the
Nature of God, and of the Nature of the Real You. And so, making the
distinction allows you to clearly glorify God.

And so it’s not you sitting in your ivory tower making distinctions.
“That’s good. That’s bad. You’re in. You’re out. I like you. I don’t
like you.” You see? It’s a holier thing than making distinctions between
right and wrong and self-righteously declaring it. It’s a holy thing to
make the distinction so that what is not of value no longer receives
your attention because clearly it is meaningless to you.

Continue . . .

At this point, the mind can begin to look with love on its own creations
because of their worthiness. At the same time the mind will inevitably
disown its miscreations which, without belief, will no longer exist.  

Yes. Continue . . .

The term “Last Judgment” is frightening not only because it has been
projected onto God, but also because of the association of “last” with
death. This is an outstanding example of upside-down perception. If the
meaning of the Last Judgment is objectively examined, it is quite
apparent that it is really the doorway to life.  

Yes. Remember last week we were talking about the word “correction.” And
that from the ego’s standpoint, the word “correction” means judgment. It
means punishment.

But correction as we are using it here means healing. So the Last
Judgment unclearly interpreted would see you being subject to correction
and punishment. But, to be provided with the clarity to make the
distinction between What Is Of Value and what is not, your being able to
make the distinction means that you become dis-illusioned. You see? And
you are left with clarity, and so it’s the beginning of being awake. And
so it’s healing, not punishment. You see?

Continue . . .

No one who is . . . No one who . . . it is quite apparent that it is
really the doorway to life. Okay. 2

No one who lives in fear is really alive.  

Yes. And I just want to insert here that at the present time on your
globe the majority of you are living in fear. And it’s not your
Birthright. And it’s not to be really alive. And so, whatever it takes
to say “No” to that which seems to create fear is essential.

Continue . . .

May I ask a question?

Yes, you may.

You said that the majority of us here on this planet are living in fear.
Does that mean that there are some people who are fearless on this
planet? I’ve never met one. That’s why I’m curious.

There are many who are living in a great deal less fear than others. And
I’m inviting all of you to join those who are so disposed at the present
time, so that the weight for . . . (the w-e-i-g-h-t) . . . the weight
for Truth can become more focused, more single, more pure. And thus help
to bring peace to other minds.

And this is accomplished primarily by corrective thinking? Is that...

That is correct.	

And we’re doing that right now. So what we’re doing here is becoming
less and less fearful.

I hope that you are.

Alright, I’m just wondering if there’s any shortcuts? That’s why . . .

You don’t need shortcuts to be the Presence of Love. You should wish for
Eternity to be able to be the Presence of Love. You should wish not to
be able to get it over with quickly. It’s your Function to be this with
each other forever.

So as one becomes more and more loving, then automatically they become
less and less fearful.

Of course, because Love and fear can’t occupy the same space. And you
become more and more loving by joining with the Father so that you might
know exactly what embodies Love under the particular circumstances,
rather than your going through steps to embody a concept of love that
you have held, perhaps for all of your life or for a number of years.

Because a concept of love does not have the bubbly in it of actual
Living Love. It’s just a rehash. It’s like an old bottle of . . . it’s
like an old glass of champagne. You need to be constantly opening a new
bottle of champagne. You need to constantly be opening the Presence of
Love that the Father would extend through you now, and now, and now,
without any preconception as to how that’s going to appear. As I’ve said
before, sometimes it will be a caress. Sometimes it will be a strong arm
holding down an obstreperous and careless individual. So you can’t dare
to second guess what is called for based on your best past perceptions
or your best concept of what love is.

Continue . . .

Your own last judgment cannot be directed toward yourself, because you
are not your own creation.  

Isn’t that wonderful? So the Last Judgment isn’t . . . hasn’t shifted
from God condemning you to you condemning you, because it’s not about
you at all. It’s about misplaced value. It’s about discerning where you
have misplaced value. It’s not where you look and discover what a sorry
asshole you’ve been. [audience laughter] It’s a joyful experience of
recognizing things you were believing that aren’t true that you were
suffering from needlessly, and that you can now be free of suffering
from because it’s such obvious nonsense. And because it’s so clearly
obvious, you’re not attracted to it anymore. It’s relief. And it’s joy.

Continue . . .

You can, however, apply it meaningfully and at any time to everything
you have made, and retain in your memory only what is creative and good.  

Now you can apply it meaningfully at any time, but I’m going to say at
any time that you join with someone who knows the Truth, and you’ve
asked, “Please show me the difference,” and then willingly accept the
difference, willingly look at things anew without insisting upon hanging
onto an old pet perception, or an old or past loved concept.

So the more consistently you’re in touch with your Guide or the Holy
Spirit, the more consistently your misperceptions will be uncovered to
you. Not with any judgment on you, but with simple distinction so that
you’re able to say, “Wow! That’s meaningless.” And in that recognition,
be free of it forever. And be the happier for it.

Continue . . .

This is what your right-mindedness cannot but dictate. The purpose of
time is solely to “give you time” to achieve this judgment. It is your
own perfect judgment of your own perfect creations. When everything you
retain is lovable, there is no reason for fear to remain with you. This
is your part in the Atonement.  

Whew!

This is your part in the Atonement.  

What’s is the Atonement? An Act of Love. So, when you do this, you make
a gift to everyone and everything, because your mind becomes single,
without distractions, without confusions. And in that singleness, in
that single-mindedness, in that purity of the awareness of What Truth
Is, in the awareness of What Truth Is, you spontaneously and
effortlessly and without conscious design become a beacon of Light, a
Presence of Love that blesses absolutely everyone. Not just on your
globe, but the whole Brotherhood—those who are awake as well as those
who are still dreaming dreams.

So, when you do this . . . well, there’s no reason for delay. And that
means you’ve got to start doing it right where you are. Right where the
calls for Love are coming from that appear as hate and attack. And right
there with those who are apparently loving as well, and those who are
not making waves or creating dissonance. Because you’re not totally free
of illusion about either one of them—those who are lovely and lovable,
and those who are calling for Love and appear to be hateful and a
problem.

Yes. Somebody had a hand?

Some years ago if I remember correctly in my study of the Course under
your direction, you were making the distinction between discernment and
judgment. That being when you see an apple and an orange, you’re
discerning that there is a difference, but you’re not judging one to be
better or other than the other.

Exactly.

Of late in our discussions here on Thursday night, it seems to have been
a greater distinction to make a “Yes” a “No.” Make a choice for the
correct, the good, the way the Father would see it.

Well let’s put it this way. You have a bowl of oranges and you have a
bowl of lemons, and you want to make orange juice. Are you going to pick
the lemons?

No.

Right. You’re going to say “No” to the lemons. Not because lemons are
bad, but because lemons don’t make orange juice. You have to make a
distinction between what fits and what doesn’t, what works and what
doesn’t.

My question would be that because that was some years ago, I don’t
remember . . . but now we’re hitting the nail a little harder on the
head. We’re making a greater distinction, a greater discernment. Does
that have, even though they’re the same words as they probably meant,
does that have any indication as to the body waking up more, calling for
more action? Is it any distinction between a more awake state of man?
Because now we’ve made the distinction between judgment and discernment,
now we’re making the distinction between judgment as to what we choose,
what the Father would choose. I’m just curious as to the . . . if that
is an indicator because it is over a period of time. And time is why we
are given it to… what is it? . . . “give you time to achieve this
judgment.” Just in my own opening up.

Yes. It is a very good question. The call for judgment has increased
because everyone is closer to waking up. And therefore, it’s not only
easier to make the distinctions, it’s more necessary to make the
distinctions.

And choose.

And choose. Exactly.

So the old judgment, the word “judgment” as opposed to discernment, is a
different judgment, if I would . . .

That is correct.

. . . today than it was five, maybe ten years ago.

The old judgment was an evaluation of worth. The old judgment was an
evaluation of the worth of an objective thing, another individual. As in
a court of law, you have been judged and found guilty and now, because
you are a bad person, you must pay the penalty.

What we’re talking about here is making a distinction between each one’s
faulty definitions of what is of value and what is not, and his true
definitions of What Is Of Value and what is not. We’re talking about
something within each individual.

And so, if you say Saddam Hussein is an evil man, you are making a
judgment about the man. But the judgment we’re talking about is what
occurs when you say, “Saddam Hussein is an evil man,” and then you catch
yourself, and you ask yourself whether that thought that you are
entertaining is of value or not, whether it is a worthy thought or not,
whether it represents the Truth or not, whether it embodies What God Is
Being or not, so that you may choose not to embody that thought. So that
you choose not to embrace it. So that you say “No” to the thought and
are open to discover What Is True about that man from the Father.

Now if someone is behaving badly, if someone is behaving poorly, you say
“No” to the poor behavior, because you know since he is the direct
Expression of God that he is capable of behaving better. And it’s your
intent to inspire better behavior because you know he’s capable of it.
Your action toward him arises out of truly an ultimate . . . an
ultimately true awareness of him, so that your behavior doesn’t condemn
him, but uplifts him by encouragement and inspiration that comes out of
the Love you feel because you are apprehending him truly. All you need
is the ability to make the distinction between the two examples that I
just gave. You see?  And you have to remember that your reason for being
in relationships is healing, not punishment. You see? So that the means
you use embody the vision, the goal, that you would achieve.

May I go further?

You may.

Could it be that the purpose being . . . I don’t know the word . . .
exemplified . . . would be the calling forth of people globally to the
Iraq situation in expressing, calling forth, challenging the greater
body in making a “Yes/No” decision as to war as a response to this
behavior. Could . . . because the change from judgment to discernment
back to judgment, if you will, was over time, could this also be as we
called it twelve years ago, the Gulf Crisis as the rebirthing of
something new in the Middle East? Could this be the next step of coming
together globally to look at this as a global response to . . . what
might previously have been a behavior that would have called for direct
war, like in World War II or something? What I’m saying is are we seeing
a progress and a coming together over this issue, and might that be
greater to the Truth than good or bad behavior?

It is a good question. It is a call. It is a global call. It is a global
roll call, if you will, inviting people, inviting everyone to discover
the part they can play by being involved together in standing with What
Is Of Value, and standing against what is not of value. Not against with
force, but against in the awareness that what is valueless is
meaningless.

There is a global call for unity of intent to demand the Expression of
Intelligence and Love and Respect for every single individuality and
nothing less. Even though this will seem to infringe on free will, which
everyone is . . . not everyone, but too many are intent upon valuing,
free will that is, to the point where no distinction is being made
between the allowability of free will that harms and free will that
heals.

It is time for mankind to discover its global capacity to speak on
behalf of global humaneness. It is time for mankind to globally discover
its integrity, and that it has a capacity to exert its integrity on
behalf of the integrity of every man, woman, and child on the globe, and
thereby experience a unity that transcends national ego interests. And
that this is what the call is for, is evidence of progress made. The
world, mankind, is in a new place.

I want to point something out. Many of you have jobs and you also have
relationships outside of your jobs. And you go to work and you have a
skill that you’re able to express and embody well. But at home, we’ll
say, you don’t have as many skills as would be helpful, and so what you
embody and express, if it were put under a magnifying glass, would seem
to provide many opportunities for judgment and for discrediting you. And
I mean every single one of you. Is the fact that in some areas of your
life you don’t have great skills… does the fact that in areas of your
life you don’t have great skill, and therefore behave poorly, does that
constitute justification for calling the good work that you are able to
do skillfully in your job into question? Be careful that you don’t allow
yourself to succumb to the invitation to discredit an essential act of
integrity, because in some other areas, the person expressing the
integrity may not have expressed integrity. And I’m going to leave it at
that.

You all are opening up a lot and becoming significantly less defended
against what, just a short time ago, you would have been unwilling to
embrace. You are becoming more significantly grounded and stable. And
it’s giving you the ability to recognize that every aspect of awakening
is intelligent, is reasonable. And that even though it calls for you to
embrace what would have been unthinkable in the not too distant past, is
now thinkable. And that means shift is happening.

Okay. I love you all. Good night.

Chapter 2 – THE ILLUSION OF SEPARATION – Section: THE CORRECTION FOR THE
LACK OF LOVE (Raj did not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July
2003, therefore, there can be a lot of difference in the readings.)
Sparkly Book – p.42, 2nd Full Par.   /   JCIM – p.18, 3rd Par.   /
CIMS – p.37, Par. 104 Chapter 2 – THE SEPARATION AND ATONEMENT –
Section:  THE MEANING OF THE LAST JUDGMENT 1First Edition  –  p. 29   /
Second Edition – p 33 2 Students – commenting or asking a question.
