---
title: Mar 13, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who is also joining us on the
internet. 

This section in my original dictation to Helen came now. In other words,
it followed what we finished reading last week. And as I said when we
skipped it, you will find that it has much more meaning at this point
than if we had read it in the sequence you find it in the second and
first editions.

Now before we begin, I want to present two ideas. What if there’s only
one Altar? We’ve been talking about turning toward the Altar, going
within and turning toward the Altar. And I would be willing to bet that
all of you thought you were turning to an Altar somewhere in the center
of you, and that therefore, there were as many Altars as there were
individuals turning within. What if there’s only one Altar? And the
Altar you’re turning to when you go within is that one Altar.

It’s sort of like the illustration of the diamond that I’ve used in the
past where each of you could be considered facets of the diamond. If you
are looking out from the diamond, you can see that there are other
facets adjoining you that seem quite independent of you, having a
distinct shape of their own, and so on, all capable of refracting the
light. But communication is difficult because you have to bridge the
line separating the facets. And you have to somehow communicate around
the outer surface of the diamond. But if as the facet you look toward
the interior of the diamond, you find that the whole diamond is you. And
you find that every other facet, every other individuality as a facet
looking toward the interior finds that the whole diamond is what
constitutes them, including you. There’s only one interior. And in that
interior, you are all One, having, you might say, a little bit of the
surface area of the diamond specifically identifying you. And in a way
you can extrapolate from this the meaning of being specific and
universal at the same time, because you are all universal and specific
simultaneously.

So now if you’re all turning toward the same Altar because there’s only
one Altar, the very fact that you’re turning toward the Altar means
you’re turning toward each other. You see that? The very act of turning
toward the Altar means that you are all moving into the space where you
are One. Now I know that after listening to me for some length of time
or any length of time, you know that turning toward the Altar is what
you are doing when you turn toward your Guide, or toward the Holy
Spirit, or toward the Father, asking for guidance. But now you have the
added perspective that all the rest of you are available to each other,
to you along with your Guide, and along with the Holy Spirit.

And that space, if you will, the interior of the diamond where the One
Altar is, is where you’re already One, where you’re already available to
each other to perceive as the Christs That You Are. It’s where communion
with each other can occur. So I just wanted to add that little bit of
information so that you might be able to contemplate it and abide with
it.

It doesn’t matter where any individuality is on your globe. It doesn’t
matter where any individuality is in the Whole of Creation. All of those
individualities are available to you as some aspect of the Infinitude Of
Your Being when you are turning toward the Altar. And that’s where Real
Communion can occur. That’s where you can see each other as you are and
connect with each other on that basis. And you will find that when you
connect with each other from there, you will appear to communicate with
each other in the world. So once again, this isn’t a matter of
withdrawing from the world and going into some private mental space
where you have a private conversation mentally with your Brothers and
Sisters. It’s going to look like something. Mind, every aspect of
capital “M” Mind is a Conscious Experience, and is therefore a
manifested experience. There is Visibility and Tangibility to It and
it’s called Creation.

And so going within to gather from the Father His Perspective of your
Brother or Sister so that you might experience a miracle, a sudden shift
of perception, that allows you to Love your Brother from the gifted
perspective that you find yourself filled up with is healing.

Now the second thing I wanted to talk about is this. When you are facing
away from the Altar, you experience what I’m going to call the Fourth
Dimensional Conscious Experience of Being as though it is a
three-dimensional-only universe. Cause arises from the Fourth
Dimensional Conscious Experience of Being and is infinitely manifest.
But if you deprive yourself of the Father’s Perspective which is
Fourth-Dimensional—in other words, Whole, All-Inclusive—you experience
the Infinitude of Creation as though it’s external to you and as though
it’s self-existent. And as I said last week and the week before, when
your back is to the Altar, everything you see is seen through the lens
of fear. And so this three-dimensional universe that you see appears to
be fearsome and you become locked into a defensive stance toward it. You
are suffering from ignorance of What It Is. And in the ignorance of What
It Is, you give it definition yourself. But all your definitions amount
to are beliefs. And the minute you create a belief, you also create “the
believer”. There is no believer. There’s only the Son of God, the
Daughter of God. But the moment you create a belief, you necessarily
create a believer, and then you begin to think that’s who you are—the
believer of what you’re believing.

Now, I’m bringing this up for a very important reason and that is, that
when correction occurs, which means healing, it is absolutely essential
for the belief be separated from the Christ that seems to be suffering
from the belief.

And so we will pick the obvious example, I will pick two obvious
examples of how correction can occur. You have an individuality by the
name of Saddam Hussein. You also have an individuality by the name of
George W. Bush. There are other individuals on the stage at the moment.
And depending upon your point of view, the two individuals I have named
are considered evil men. But, if you’re going to see correction occur,
healing occur, you’re going to have to separate the belief that they are
evil men, or the belief of evilness, from the individuality known as
George Bush and the individuality known as Saddam Hussein. If you do not
make that distinction, we were talking about distinction last week, if
you do not make that distinction, then you will proceed to get rid of
evil men. And there’s no correction in that. And who’s the deluded one?
You!

Now that doesn’t mean that correction doesn’t need to occur. But
understand that the way correction occurs is when you distinguish
between the Christ and whatever belief that Christ happens to have
succumbed to that is causing his perspective to be fearful and
defensive, and who finds force to be the only way to survive.

Now this applies equally to cancer, or any disease, or any sin that any
of you might be suffering from, or any of your friends might be. Don’t
say, “Oh, that poor soul!” Say, “There’s no poor soul there. There’s the
Christ.” What they’re suffering from is a belief. The belief is nothing
more than magic. And the effects of that magic are nothing more than
illusion. They are not real and they have nothing whatsoever to do with
that individuality who is the Christ.

Now this you can do intellectually—consciously and intellectually.
Having done it, you can then without bias go within to ask God, “What
needs to be known here? What is the healing element here that will
transform the appearance of a Christ suffering from ignorance? How can I
approach this Christ with peace and with Love that will illuminate the
Christ of that one, reminding him or her of the Truth about himself or
herself?”

And it won’t be quite so difficult as it is if you say, “He’s an evil
bastard. God, help me to forgive him for his awfulness!” You see? You’re
the one projecting the awfulness onto him. You’re adding that. That’s a
job to overcome to have God to help you overcome the awfulness of his
evilness, which is a definition you’ve provided.

It’s much easier to recognize that the belief and the believer are both
illusions. And that right where a believer believing a belief that he’s
suffering from seems to be is the unalterable, unchangeable, eternal
Christ. If you recognize that even just intellectually, you will find
that you have the means to approach and address this one in your mind
with genuine Love and genuine caring. And in extending that to him or
her, you know what you do? You claim that as being the Truth about you,
and you will not be so ready to succumb to your beliefs without
separating them from yourself, and recognizing that no matter what
beliefs you are believing, you are neither the believer or the belief.
You are the Christ, the direct and present Expression of God that cannot
in any way be altered in the slightest from What God Is Being right
where you are. It is this separation that allows for healing.

You see, it’s very easy to look at others, especially in the “New Age”
and say, “Well, he’s created it for himself.” You see? You’re saying
that all that’s there is a believer believing a belief. You see? No
possibility of healing there. And if you approach that one as though he
is a believer having a belief that he needs to get rid of so he believes
something new that’s more spiritual, you’re still dealing with a
believer. You’ve never cut through to the spiritual fact of him that
he’s the Christ, absolutely incapable of ever having become a believer
with a belief that he’s suffering from.

Now I don’t mean for this to sound intellectually complicated, but if
you get this, it will be much easier for you to be miracle ready. And
it’s closer to being miracle-minded, and it lays the way for a sudden
shift of perception to occur [snap of the fingers] much more easily. You
see?

If you want to experience a time collapse where there’s instantaneous
healing, you’re going to have to approach the one needing healing,
whether it’s yourself or another, with some way to cut through the
confusion that keeps the bondage in place. And when you realize that
what will cut through it is the recognition that the belief that this
other one is suffering from is being entertained by a non-existent
presence called a believer, who is actually the Christ temporarily
unconscious of his Christhood, then you will forget about the belief.
You will forget about whether that one has created itself . . . created
it for himself and deserves the consequences he or she is experiencing,
and you will address your attention to the Christ that is there. And
what happens? You negate the belief, the believer, and the suffering,
the consequences, and there’s [snaps fingers] a time collapse and you
have what is called an instantaneous healing, or which you call a sudden
shift of perception. What cuts through it is the capacity to recognize
another’s Innocence, primitive Innocence, primordial Innocence.
Innocence from the beginning that could never be altered.

You hear that there is an evil axis in your world. Oooh! And you have
the leaders of the three countries that constitute the evil axis and
they are evil. Wow! Well, you better get it straight right now. All
three of them are the Christ. All three of them are the direct
expression and embodiment of God, or Allah, or whatever name is used to
identify the Original and Omnipotent Creator of Existence. They are all
right now the Christ. And they are innocent. Their innocence is part of
the very embodiment of them that God is embodying at every moment just
like He is embodying it in you in every moment.

And so, you have to be practical, and you have to disallow acts of harm.
Sort of the same way you would restrain someone who was delirious and
flailing, but you would not believe that you were restraining evil. You
would just be restraining behavior arising out of misunderstanding, out
of beliefs that were acquired while one’s back was to the Altar, while
one wasn’t listening for God to reveal His Perception, His Perspective,
His Vision of His Creation, as it truly is.

So you restrain those whose inarticulate and awkward expression of
existence would bring harm, while not believing for a moment that they
are evil. You separate the belief and the believer from the
individuality. You acknowledge Who and What the Individuality can only
Be and you Love that. And you let God fill you with the means to convey,
to embody, to express the Love that God instills in you. Not that you
figure out with your best judgment will probably be the thing that will
help. You embody what you’re infilled with to share so that a sudden
shift of perception can occur and healing, an experience of time
collapsed, can occur, so that it doesn’t take years to change, or years
to refine your soul to a better, purer place. So that was the second
thing I wanted to share.

So let’s go to the book.

Question.

As we see with these new eyes facing the Altar and seeing the Christ, we
are also seeing ourselves as the Expression of the Father. When I see
and make the distinction in another who is afar—George W. Bush, Saddam
Hussein—where is the healing? Is it just one more person seeing the
Truth? How do we observe a healing? 1

How do we?

Observe the healing from afar. I only say that in perspective in that
we’re not going to wake up the next morning and see a change in
behavior.

To Love there is no distance

Okay. But with my partner I can see something more clearly maybe than I
can with the individuals you’ve . . .

Well let me put it this way. Tests have been made, and it has been shown
that a plant that is on a table in your own house that you give loving
attention to, that if you just sit there and look at it, appreciating
it, it responds. And if that plant is taken thirty miles or a hundred
miles away, and you sit in your house and think exactly the same loving
thoughts about it, it responds as though it were in your house.

Don’t you believe for a moment that your Expression of Love toward
Christ George Bush, or Christ Saddam Hussein, isn’t felt. We’ve talked
before about the fact that there are no private thoughts.

We’ve talked about waging peace. You know what? I don’t know if anyone
thought about it, but you can’t wage peace as a defense. It is like
talking about dry water. You’ve got to find in you some way to recognize
that Saddam Hussein is at this very moment the undefiled, unaltered,
direct Expression of God, and that anything else is an overlay that
either he is putting like a cloak over himself or that you are putting
like a cloak over him. And then take the cloak off. That’s your task: to
find a way to take the cloak off so that you can actually Love, and then
turn to God and say, “God, fill me with the Love so that it fills me so
full it overflows and blesses everyone.”

This isn’t you using your mind to make something happen. This is you
letting God use your mind to make something happen. And that’s why you
turn toward the Altar, because you don’t know how to use your mind to
make something happen. Why? Because the you, you think you are at the
moment is a three-dimensional object, and the third dimension is not
where cause arises. That’s why you turn toward the Altar so that God can
move through you, so that God can use your mind to find expression quote
“in the dream,” and thereby dissolve the dream. Does that answer your
question?

Yes. Thank you.

You are welcome.

Okay. Actually we always start here. Let’s start in the back.

SPECIAL PRINCIPLES OF MIRACLE WORKERS 2 

The miracle abolishes the need for . . .   

I’m sorry. This is . . . if you’ll as you read them, this is Principle
Number One.

[Principle Number] (1) The miracle abolishes the need for lower-order
concerns.  

And just for clarity, “lower-order” would refer to the three-dimensional
frame of reference and the Kingdom of Heaven as it appears to be seen
through the three-dimensional frame, lens, let’s say.

Continue . . .

Since it is an out-of-pattern time interval, . .   

. . . the miracle, that is . . .

. . . the ordinary considerations of time and space do not apply.  

Which is why there can be a collapse of time.

When you perform a miracle, I will arrange both time and space to adjust
to it.  

And how do you perform a miracle? By letting God use your mind to embody
His Purpose. Not because you have said, “I am going to make a miracle.”
You see? Okay.

[Principle Number] (2) A clear distinction between what is created and
what is made is essential. All forms of healing rest on this fundamental
correction in level perception.  

[Editor’s Note: Below Raj says: When I actually dictated this to Helen
in Principle Number Two I said, “All forms of correction,” and then in
parentheses, “(healing) rest on this fundamental correction in level
perception.”]

Okay. And for additional clarity, a clear distinction between What Is
Created and what is made is essential. What Is Created is What God Has
Created. What is made are the modifications to What God Has Created that
we’ve talked about during the last two weeks. What you make, what you
seem to be able to create, is nothing more than a modification of What
Actually Exists, and your modification isn’t even eternal.

Okay. Microphone.

I asked a while back about DNA. So if there’s these two people standing
there talking and all of the words and the vibrating of the air, and all
of that’s God’s Love. It’s all Spirit. And in their minds there’s this
perception, mutual agreements about language, and the conversation’s
made in the midst of Creation.

That is true.

So . . . and I get this, about a million years we were talking about,
you know, the last judgment. Isn’t . . . since the development of a
tooth and a claw coming from a sense of lack, isn’t what’s going on even
though DNA is Spirit, isn’t there intent? Isn’t a claw made? Isn’t a
tooth made versus created?

No. What’s made is the use it’s put to. So shall birds and sheep and
frogs have toenails just like you? How boring. And how exquisite the
design if you look at each varied form as though it were a work of art
that is there for appreciation because it is so exquisite. When you
misperceive or give a strange definition to some part of Creation, you
do tend to cover up your capacity to discern and feel the Meaning
expressed as a tooth, or a claw, or a toenail. And I promise you all,
that there is nothing that is not glorious once you manage to abandon
the confidence you have in the definitions you have given to claw and
tooth and toenail.

You’ve got to look at the Altar to see.

That is correct. You have to look at the Altar to see them.

Continue . . .

[The third Special Principles of a Miracle Worker.] (3) Never confuse
right- and wrong-mindedness. Responding to any form of error with
anything except a desire to heal is an expression of this confusion. 
 
Exactly. It couldn’t be stated any more clearly. Wrong-mindedness is
constituted of whatever goes on in your mind when your back is toward
the Altar and you have deprived yourself of the Father’s Perspective.
And right-mindedness is what you spontaneously experience when you stop
valuing your private perspective, and genuinely, and humbly, and
defenselessly, ask for the Father’s Perspective.

When I actually dictated this to Helen, in Principle Number Two I said,
“All forms of correction,” and then in parentheses, “(healing) rest on
this fundamental correction in level perception.”

Correction in its true meaning is healing. And when you turn to the
Father and you are filled with right-mindedness, every thought directed
to George Bush, every thought directed toward Saddam Hussein, and every
thought you direct toward your ugly self, will have as its intent
healing, because it’s being extended to the Christ that the Father’s
Perspective has revealed to you as them, and as yourself. Amazing stuff.

Continue . . .

[Principle Number] (4) The miracle is always a denial of this error and
an affirmation of the truth. Only right-mindedness can correct in a way
that has any real effect.  

And that is because right-mindedness originates from the level of Cause,
the Father’s Mind, the Fourth-Dimensional Conscious Experience of Being.

Continue . . .

Pragmatically, what has no real effect has no real existence. Its
effect, then, is emptiness. Being without substantial content, it lends
itself to projection.  

Okay.

Pragmatically, what has no real effect has no real existence. Its
effect, then, is emptiness.  

Well, what about so-and-so who insulted you? What about so-and-so who
treated you raunchy? What about so-and-so who made your life miserable?
What about so-and-so who caused you great grief?

Well first of all, you see, if you’re going to hold a grievance, it
means that you think they actually could have done something that
actually did hurt you. But I’m telling you that if you want to become
free of the hurt that you say you have experienced, you are going to
have to make this distinction between the Christ who was standing there
all the time you were being treated grievously, and you’re going to have
to separate the claim that their presence seemed to make that there was
a believer with a belief that he or she was suffering from that caused
him or her to behave in a way that harmed you. Because if you cannot
separate the innocent Christ from the false presentation, if you can’t
separate the false presentation from the Christ, you’re not going to be
able to see that what you thought they did to you and what they thought
they were doing to you, had to be magic and had to be an illusion. And
until you can see that, you can’t see that the suffering you have been
experiencing is likewise an effect of magic and an illusion that you
have bought into by believing that someone actually did some real magic.

Do you understand what I’m saying? In your ability to make distinction
between the Christ and the false sense of self that seemed to be
overlaid on the Christ, until you can make that distinction, or when you
make that distinction, you have laid the groundwork for that one to feel
safe enough to allow a sudden shift of perception and you have set
yourself up for instantaneous release from the so-called damage that you
were suffering from. And so you experience instantaneous healing as
well.

Question.

So when you are saying “No” like we’re saying “No” to Saddam, you are
saying “No” to the belief and the believer.

That is correct.

You’re saying “No” because . . . and in any situation that you need to
say “No,” that’s what . . . you’re saying “No” to the thing that is the
alteration of the Truth.

Exactly.

Not the person.

Exactly.

Okay.

And just saying “No” isn’t enough. You say “No” to the so-called
believer and the beliefs that have made the believer behave unlovingly.
But, you do that as a part of the process of separating the believer and
belief from the Christ and then you be the Presence of Love toward the
Christ. And if that seems to involve a process of re-education, if it
seems to involve an ongoing process of extending Love, of embodying
Love, toward that Christ, and because it’s Love finding that it comes
out in a way that inspires the Christ that that one is to come out of
the closet, then you are… then you’re being an agent for change.

So it’s not just a matter of saying “No.” It’s saying “No” and “Yes.”
“No” to the idea that there’s an evil person. Separating the evilness
from the Christ that it’s been associated with, and then giving full
attention, Brotherly attention, caring attention, persistent attention,
to the Christ that is standing there, knowing, as I’ve said before, that
the Christ that is standing there is quite capable of comprehending and
feeling what is whole, and what is true, and what is healthy, and what
is loving.

So it would be like if you are in an argument, like in a group, and the
group is misbehaving, and it’s . . . you’re . . . and you’re a part of
that. You all of a sudden realize, “Wait a minute! What are we doing
here?!” And you speak up and say, “No, I’m not going to play this any
more. We need to rethink this.” And then hold . . . hold on to that
belief and refuse to participate in the game. And by doing that, that’s
what will help.

It will as long as you’re not . . . do not think you’re talking to a
bunch of contrary egos when you say, “We need to rethink this.” You may
be saying “No” to the contrary egos, but when you say, “We need to
rethink this,” you’ve got to know you’re speaking to the Christ of each
one of them, to that which is of excellence in the middle of each one of
them, you see, so that in saying that you are honoring them. Something
which is very difficult for anyone to ignore. To be honored is something
usually all of you usually respond to well. You see?

Okay.

You aren’t even saying “No” to them. You’re saying “No” to an illusion
that everyone has succumbed to thinking is real. You’re saying “No” to
what is senseless.

Like a cultural belief that . . . you don’t even know where that came
from but you’ve gone along with it because that’s the way it always is,
then all of a sudden something wakes you up to, “Wait a minute!”

Indeed.

Okay.

Yes.

If you don’t follow up the “No” with the “Yes,” then the person would
still likely associate themselves with the part that made the “No.”

That is correct.

Okay.

Yes. The “No” and the “Yes” better be simultaneously present, else the
“No” is nothing more than a defense. It’s that simple.

Let us continue . . .

[Principle Number] (5) The level-adjustment power of the miracle induces
the right perception for healing.  

Which is exactly what we’ve just been saying.

Until this has occurred healing cannot be understood. Forgiveness is an
empty gesture unless it entails correction.  

Indeed. Which is healing.

Without this it is essentially judgmental, rather than healing.  

Yes. Like we were talking about last week where it’s a judgment against
something. Whereas Judgment is the distinction between What Is Real and
what is not, and choosing for the Real. Making the distinction between
What Is Of Value and what is valueless, and choosing for What Is Value
because what has become obviously valueless to you is something not any
part of you would hang on to any longer because you see that it serves
you in no way. Okay.

I have a question about forgiveness. And basically you said, it’s the
judgment followed by the healing. First you discern, and then you offer
a healing.

Forgiveness is really the withdrawal of judgment upon your Brother.

I don’t mean that kind of judgment. I meant judgment as far as
discernment.

Ask your question again.

Okay. Forgiveness is the process where first you discern What’s Real and
what’s not real, and then you offer a healing. Correct?

Yes. Yes. You make the distinction between What Is Real and unreal, and
then you address What Is Real in the individual.

Mmm hmmm. Which is offering a healing.

Exactly. And that is an excellent way of describing forgiveness. Yes.

Okay. And here’s the thought that followed for me is that if you are not
in physical presence of the person that you’re forgiving, and since
there are no private thoughts, can you then send a healing when you turn
towards the Altar?

You can’t help but send the healing

Right. But you don’t have to be in physical vicinity?

Absolutely not.

Okay.

And that doesn’t constitute a personal power. It doesn’t constitute a
means of control.

Right.

The extension of Love is spontaneous because it fills you and overflows.
You can’t contain it. And so not only the one you’re thinking about, but
everyone else is blessed as well. And you’ve got to let Love do its work
on its terms in the way that addresses the ignorance of the one being
Loved perfectly, in a way that allows for the sudden shift of perception
that can get in through the back door, catching that one off guard so
that there’s [finger snap] a sudden “Aha!”

I’ve said before that the ego is nothing but a defense mechanism. And so
any time you inflict Love on anyone for their good, you can count on it
that they will be well-defended immediately to object to the intrusion,
to object to what they perceive to be an invasion of their privacy, and
an overriding over their free will. And mind you, your free will is very
important to all of you, although it’s becoming less.

And so, you see, that’s another reason it’s important for you not to
think you know what Love is going to appear as so that you can direct it
in that way. Because Love has to find the back door, has to find the
place where there’s a weak defense so that it can sneak in, bringing
Light where it was dark, and that person experiences a light bulb going
on.

You’ve got to let Love do its work in its way and on its terms. And
you’ve got to trust that the Father’s Love is sufficient to the need.

But you know what? You can’t say, “Father, please Love him. Father, he
needs Your Love.” You’ve got to become involved, and you’ve got to say,
“Father, show me how to Love him.” Because the Love has to be a gift in
a relationship. It has to be the manifestation of caring. It has to be
the manifestation of joining in Brotherhood for reasons of Brotherhood.

This globe, this planet is not going to arrive at peace and harmony
until the reasons everyone relates to each other are reasons of Love and
Brotherhood, to express and embody Brotherhood, so that everyone does
well because everyone cares about everyone else. Not because they
managed in the game of one-up-man-ship. You see?

Okay. Let us continue . . .

Can I ask one quick question?

Yes.

In . . . um . . .

That wasn’t quick enough. [audience laughter]

[laughing] In the job that I’m doing now, this seems like this is a very
important thing to use, to practice. And I . . . am I correct?

You are correct. And it is also a place where you will find it much
easier to practice it than any other place you’ve been before.

Yes. Right on. It hits the nail on the head. Thanks.

You are welcome.

[Principle Number] (6) Miracle-minded forgiveness is only correction. It
has no element of judgment at all. The statement “Father forgive them
for they know not what they do” in no way evaluates what they do. It is
an appeal to God to heal their minds.  

Yes. You see the . . . what they do, what they’ve done, what their
reasons were, whether their suffering is deserved or not, all of that is
irrelevant to the correction. The correction is the result of loving
enough to ask that their belief and their sense of being the believer of
the belief be illuminated for the illusions they are so that that one
can come into a fuller Conscious Experience of their Christhood and
their God-given Sanity.

Continue . . .

There is no reference to the outcome of the error. That does not matter.  

How can there be an outcome to an error? How can there become . . . how
can there be an outcome to something that didn’t happen? And I mean that
in the sense that if God didn’t authorize it, nothing happened. And if
God did authorize it, it’s obviously an aspect of the Kingdom of Heaven
that is perfect and awesome.

Now, if someone is attempting to do something that they cannot do, like
inflict harm, the fact that they are attempting to do it means they are
suffering some form of insanity, and that does require correction. You
can’t say, “He’s not doing anything. What he thinks he’s doing is an
illusion. Therefore, there’s nothing I need to do.”

If you see somebody walking into a wall over and over, and a foot to the
left of him is an open doorway, you don’t say, “Oh. Well just let him do
it. He’s not hurting anything.” But he’s not managing to get where he’s
trying to go. So you go over and you say, “Hey! Move over a foot to your
left.” Phoom! He walks through the wall. It doesn’t matter why he was
ignorant enough to keep walking into the wall. It doesn’t matter . . .
none of it matters. All that matters is correction is called for so that
he experiences his freedom, and his freedom to go where he’s wanting to
go, and his freedom from an unnecessary block to his getting there. You
see?

Continue . . .

[Principle Number] (7) The injunction “Be of one mind” is the statement
for revelation-readiness.  

And we’ve talked about singleness of mind, singleness of purpose, and
that when you become unconfused and undistracted and your intent is pure
because there’s nothing extraneous to it, at the moment that that intent
is pure it is done. The intent is done. Time does not stand in the way
of the manifestation of that intent. That is what this means.

Continue . . .

My request “Do this in remembrance of me” is the appeal for cooperation
from miracle workers. The two statements are not in the same order of
reality. Only the latter involves an awareness of time, since to
remember is to recall the past in the present. Time is under my
direction, but timelessness belongs to God. In time we exist for and
with each other. In timelessness we coexist with God.  

Indeed. In time we exist, mind you, not just with each other, but for
and with each other. In timelessness, we coexist with God. If you want
to get to the timeless coexistence with God, you’ve got to fulfill the
function of consciously being not only with, but for, present on behalf
of each other. That’s the way you break the isolation. That’s the way
you break the sense of the presence of a believer having to believe
something because the Experience of What Everything Is, is temporarily
unavailable to you because you’ve turned your back on the Altar.

The simple answer is Love. The simple answer is Love. And for the last
five or six weeks we’ve been very specifically speaking about how to
release fear. Why? So that nothing blocks your ability to stand in
receipt of the Father’s Love and extend it to your Brother, thus
breaking the illusion of separation and causing you to be extremely
susceptible to waking up. You will not be able to get to the timeless
coexistence with God until you’re willing to be present now, existing
for and with each other.

Microphone over here.

I’m really asking for the words to express this. It seems for a while I
have been witness to many working hard at unsuccessful relationships.
And so when I hear what you just said, “that we exist in time for each
other,” the first thing that comes to mind are all those who are having
unsuccessful relationships. Meaning relationships with those who do not
wish to make commitments in any kind of a relationship, who stand firm .
. .

No, I beg your pardon.

. . . in the claim of independence . . .

I beg your pardon.

. . . as far as I see it.

There is a willingness to make commitment to relationships, but on the
condition that the one they’re in relationship with, or that they make
commitment to, is going to be there for them. In other words, if I want
to be in a relationship with you so that I can get what you have for me
because we’re supposed to be here for each other, I want you to be here
for me. That’s not . . . that’s got it backwards.

I’m here for you whether you’re here for me or not. I am here for all of
you whether you’re here for me or not. And I will continue to be here
for you until you recognize that I’m here for you and arrive at a point
of saying, “Wow! How incredible! And he doesn’t ask for anything back as
a condition for being here for me, although he does want something.” I
do want something from you, but that’s not a . . . my getting it is not
a condition of my being here for you.

When you want to be in a relationship so that you have the opportunity
to be there for someone else, it causes you to be very, very attractive.
So attractive that you will find those who want to get coming to your
doorstep, those who want to get without giving. And so you will have to
be alert not to be used, and you will have to discern, make a
distinction between those who want to be in a relationship with you in
order to get, and those who want to be in a relationship with you
because they find you desirable and who want to give you, be there for
you, and then choose well. Choose for What Is Valuable. And choose not
for that which is valueless.

The key in every case to unsuccessful relationships is when one or both
of the partners have moved to a selfish getting standpoint and insist
upon operating from there. And that’s the bottom line of the distress on
your globe at the moment. And it is calling for Brotherly Love to be
expressed in ways that allow for the innate dignity of those behaving
like ignorant bastards to be illuminated and magnified, so that those
behaving badly can feel like it’s safe to act with respect. The
resolution will occur when everyone wins. Everyone wins.

Now, there are really only seven Special Principles of Miracle Workers.
The eighth one here appears in a part of the original Course that no
longer appears in the Course at all, but it was felt to be worth keeping
and so it was, like pin the tail on the donkey, added here. [audience
amusement]

[Editor’s Note: In the above paragraph, the “original Course” refers to
the Urtext version of the Course. The missing section referred to is,
“True Rehabilitation,” and it is in the Urtext Text, the HLC Text, and
the “Sparkly Book.” The section, “True Rehabilitation,” does not appear
in the published first and second editions of the Course (except the
last paragraph of the section, see below). Note also that Raj will
discuss the “True Rehabilitation” section on September 7, 2003 when he
is reading from the “Sparkly Book.” ]

I am not going to say that we’re not going to read it because it wasn’t
said here. We’re going to read it because it does fit. And you’ll find .
. . Well, let’s read it.

Who has the microphone? Continue . . .

My privilege.

[Number] (8) You can do much on behalf of your own healing and that of
others if, in a situation calling for help, you think of it this way:

“I am here only to be truly helpful.  I am here to represent Him Who
sent me.  I do not have to worry about what to say or what to do,
because He Who sent me will direct me.  I am content to be wherever He
wishes, knowing He goes there with me.  I will be healed as I let Him
teach me to heal.”
        
Indeed. Now, it can’t help but be clearer to you than ever before that
this is not a wonderful string of words with positive ideas for you to
run through your mind. These words are literal. These words are literal.

You are here only to be truly helpful, because that’s your divine
Function. You are here to represent Him, with a capital “H”, Who sent
you. Well, you don’t really have any other choice than to be the direct
Expression of God embodying God. You can indulge in magic thoughts and
fool yourself into believing that you are here to represent yourself.
But it doesn’t make it true. You are the direct Expression of God, and
nothing else.

I do not have to worry about what to say or what to do, because He Who
sent me will direct me.  

And that’s not in the by-and-by, you know. We’re talking about
listening, turning toward the Altar now, and hearing the Father’s Voice
now, hearing your Guide’s Voice now, hearing the Holy Spirit’s direction
now really in a real event here today. You see? Not airy-fairy
wonderful, pink cloud, fluffy ideas.

I am content . . .  

I am content to be wherever He wishes, . .   

[laughing] It is sort of amusing, isn’t it? It’s really foolish not to
be content with where . . .  with being wherever the Father is being
you. [laughing a lot] Do you have any other choice than to be where He
is being you?

I am content to be wherever He wishes, knowing He goes there with me.  

You could say: Knowing He goes me there. [audience laughing] Which means
you’re not alone.

I will be healed as I let Him teach me to heal.  

Yes. You see, this is all literal. It’s all wonderfully literal. It’s
meat and potatoes. Not pie in the sky after you die.

Yes.

So if I refuse to do anything at all when I’m with my Brother or Sister
except one thing, and that is to see the Christ standing right smack dab
before me, then that’s like what you’ve been saying and what I’ve been
understanding. A very real and very clear distinction behind . . .
between what I see and how they’re behaving. Is that right?

Between what you see?

Between the Christ that I see and how they’re behaving, which is nine
times . . . ninety-nine times out of a hundred, probably with all of
their, you know, historical reactions and beliefs, and so forth, and so
on, that’s really not representative of the Christ That They Are.

And what is the question?

It’s like a reaffirmation that I’m giving back to you of what you’ve
been saying to us.

Yes. That is correct.

And from like an experiential point of view, if I remove myself like
from my thinking part, and I just refuse to see anything but the Christ
in them from an experiential point . . .

You refuse to see anything but whatever it is God reveals to you. I
don’t even want you to start doing a string of words. You know, “I only
want to see the Christ there.”

You can say very practically, “I am able to recognize, because at the
bottom line I know it’s true about me, that I am more than my thoughts.
And I am more than my beliefs, because my beliefs can change, but I
don’t. Therefore, because I am not my beliefs, my beliefs and their
results cannot identify me. Because I see that about myself, I can look
at my Brother and reason clearly that he is not his beliefs, and he
doesn’t deserve the suffering he is experiencing from his beliefs,
therefore, I see them separate. I am able to make a distinction between
the two, and on the basis of that distinction I choose to ask God how to
be with the unchangeable Christ that is there, so that he might be
released from suffering beliefs that he thinks he’s the believer of,
together with his freedom from his belief that he’s the believer of
them.” You see?

Yes, and I would definitely like to be with What’s Real with me and be
with What’s Real with my Brother and Sister.

Yes. And then having acknowledged what I just said, you turn to the
Father and say, “Fill me with Love. Fill me with Your Vision. Fill me
with Your Perspective, so that I might be overflowingly filled with it,
and my Brother is blessed, the Christ that is standing there. Show me
how to be with him. And if his sudden shift of perception isn’t
instantaneous, help me to keep my attention on the Christ That He Is,
while we be together in an educational . . . a lovingly educational,
healing process.”

I’ll stay with that clear distinction with my own awareness and my own
willingness to stay with that clear distinction between Christ in my
Brother and Sister and their . . . and their behavior.

Indeed.

I’ll have Guidance, won’t I?

Yes, you will.

And it’ll be so much . . . it’ll be a heck of a lot easier for me to be
appropriate with their behavior without me lapsing into a state of blah,
blah, blah, fear of what’s up . . . you know, whatever I might be
inclined to . . .

And there will be a lot more quietness on your globe, because there will
be a lot less grapevine gossip and malicious gossip, and any kind of
gossip going on. And when you do open your mouths, something beautiful
and of substance will emerge.

And as Paul can tell you, when he opens his mouth and shares what he is
hearing, there’s no way to feel egotistical about it. And it’s as
natural as apple pie, and so it doesn’t seem like you’re doing anything
great. But it is meaningful, and it does have substance. And the result
will not be a sort of cotton candy, insubstantial bliss that everyone is
in because they’re speaking meaningfully and there is harmony. If
something has substance to it, it has significant meaning to it. And
significant meaning is experienced as vital. And there is a great deal
of joy that is experienced in the vitality of the substantiality of the
ideas finding expression.

So there’s nothing else to say tonight.

Well, can you . . .

I have enjoyed being with you.

So have I, of course.

Okay.


A Course In Miracles (reference pages)

Chapter 3 – RETRAINING THE MIND – Section: SPECIAL PRINCIPLES OF MIRACLE
WORKERS (Raj did not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July
2003, therefore, there can be a lot of difference in the readings.)
Sparkly Book – p.46   /   JCIM – p.19   /   CIMS – p.40 Chapter 2 – THE
SEPARATION AND ATONEMENT – Section:  SPECIAL PRINCIPLES OF MIRACLE
WORKERS 2First Edition  –  p. 23   /    Second Edition – p 27 

1 Students commenting or asking a question.
