---
title: Mar 27, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good evening.  And as always I welcome everyone who is also joining us
on the internet. 

The statement “Vengeance is Mine, sayeth the Lord” is a misperception by
which one assigns his own “evil” past to God. The “evil” past has
nothing to do with God. He did not create it and He does not maintain
it. God does not believe in retribution. His Mind does not create that
way. He does not hold your “evil” deeds against you. Is it likely that
He would hold them against me? Be very sure that you recognize how
utterly impossible this assumption is, and how entirely it arises from
projection. This kind of error is responsible for a host of related
errors, including the belief that God rejected Adam and forced him out
of the Garden of Eden. 1 

You see the idea that God penalizes you for something you are entirely
incapable of actually doing can cause one to come to this ridiculous
conclusion that God rejected Adam, and therefore you as well. And so you
presently are cast out. You’re in this dream of existence because of
what Adam did. It’s a tricky ploy of the ego because it distracts you
from the easy capacity to realize that you’re quote “on the outside”
unquote because of a choice you are currently making and not because of
anything God has done.

Let me ask you this. If you are doing a mathematical equation and you
introduce an incorrect element into the equation, you come up with the
wrong answer. 

Now, if this equation is related to an experiment in chemistry, your
incorrect answer could result in, let us say, an explosion occurring.
And you could come to the insane conclusion that the explosion was your
punishment for introducing an incorrect element into the equation as
though the principle of mathematics was just waiting to nail you, when
it has nothing to do with judgment placed upon you. When you introduce
an incorrect element into an equation, you naturally come up with an
incorrect answer. It’s not a punishment. It’s just evidence that you
have made a mistake.

If you aren’t experiencing the Kingdom of Heaven right now as the
Kingdom of Heaven, and you are instead thinking it’s the world and
universe, it’s not because God kicked you out by virtue of kicking Adam
out of the Garden of Eden, the Kingdom of Heaven, but because at this
moment you’re introducing a mutually-agreed-upon definition that is at
odds with Reality that you’re committed to. That’s all. It causes you to
see in a flawed manner. No one has laid that on you but yourself. And
the simple fact is that your commitment to a mutually-agreed-upon
definition that is flawed isn’t changing the Kingdom of Heaven at all.
So, you haven’t accomplished the impossible which would be to actually
change the Kingdom of Heaven by introducing a flawed perception. You
see?

So in the Old Testament it talks about the God of Abraham being a
jealous and a wrathful and a vengeful God. He also instructs the
Israelites to go out and slay the Canaanites so He can . . . they can
take over their land, etc. And so the general theme of the Old
Testament, if I recall it correctly, is based . . . 

An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.

Exactly. Exactly. So, two questions are: Did the Old Testament serve a
purpose in its time and then it was replaced by the Gospel of Love? Or
was it erroneous from the beginning and should be negated entirely?

I have said before that rules are for those who have forgotten how to
Love. The ten commandments were rules. And they were, if I may put it
this way, the best rules that could be embraced by the mindset at that
time that would provide longevity to the individuals who needed to
arrive at a point of remembering Love. So they were absolutely and
completely valuable at the time. Does that answer your question?

Yes, it does. Thank you.

For those who still do not remember how to Love, those rules called the
ten commandments are still valuable in helping you to, I’m going to say,
mechanically by virtue of rules achieving a certain semblance of peace
and harmony so that in the absence of living out of pure survival, there
is the opportunity, the space, if you will, the relative safety that
allows you to go within, to become still, to become unprotected,
undefended, so that you can turn toward the Altar.

Now, again so we don’t become ungrounded. If you have introduced a
flawed perception into your experience of the Kingdom of Heaven that
isn’t actually changing the Kingdom of Heaven in any way, but is most
definitely altering your experience of it, you cannot say that the
result of the flawed perception doesn’t matter because it hasn’t
actually changed anything about the Kingdom of Heaven, it hasn’t altered
God or His Creation in any way, therefore, you are not guilty of
anything that God would punish you for, and therefore, everything is all
right.

If there’s a flawed perception in the equation, correction of it needs
to occur. Why? So that you are no longer misperceiving the Kingdom of
Heaven and behaving as though you are and can be the Christ
unconsciously. It’s a matter of coming back into your own Sanity. Also,
it’s a matter of knowing the Truth so that there is no sense of
suffering that you or anyone else seems to be experiencing. Correction
of the misperception must occur, else you’re not awake yet.

So again I want to bring home the point that until correction has
occurred, you are not in a position to say, “None of this is real. None
of the misperceptions that I have had have actually changed God or
Reality in any way, and therefore, I am not subject to punishment from
God because I haven’t actually succeeded in doing anything wrong, and
therefore, I need do nothing. I can just continue introducing the
misperception into my life, and it’s okay.” You cannot do that. If you
could, there would be no Course In Miracles. If you could, there would
have been no need for me to show up two thousand years ago. The whole
point of this is that correction needs to be made and it’s time to get
about the task of making the correction.

If correction didn’t need to be made, then tell me what benefit it would
be to look at somebody who’s acting hatefully and say, “Well, that’s a
call for Love. I recognize it. That’s a call for Love,” and then you go
on about your business. “I mean who needs to do anything about it? Yeah,
it’s a call for Love. But you know, he’s not really hurting anything in
his misbehaving. Yeah. Yeah. I got this. A lot of calls for Love showing
up all over the place. Isn’t that fascinating? Mmmm.”  And you pick up
your cup of tea and have another sip and notice how beautiful the day is
and what a nice breeze there is and a . . . You see what I’m saying? A
call for Love calls for Love to be embodied, so that what was inhibiting
the one calling for Love from expressing and embodying Love himself can
dissolve and free that one up to embody Love, instead of a call for
Love, instead of needing Love to be able to extend Love.

So let’s be very clear. It’s all about correction occurring. And until
correction has occurred, you’re still in the dream. And if you don’t
even think correction is called for, you’re stuck in the dream. And your
stuckness contributes to the stuckness of your Brothers and Sisters as
well because you don’t do any of this by yourself.

Yes?

There has been a question regarding what the embodiment of the Love
should or should not look like. Could you please elaborate on that?

[laughing] Should or shouldn’t. Here we get into rules and the effects
of rules known ahead of time before the Act of Love occurs. The
Atonement is an Act of Love, right? And the Atonement is an Act of Love
that not one of you will know anything about until you let yourself into
that place where God infills you with the inspiration that overflows
from you and spontaneously blesses your Brother.  Afterwards, you can
say, “This is what it looked like.” But you cannot say beforehand what
it should look like. And I will make this very clear. You better be
ready and willing for what it does look like to be a surprise to you,
and perhaps be completely unlike anything you expected. Do you know why?
Because if that’s not the way you approach it, you are going to have
some bias as to what it will look like and that it really won’t be at
all surprising to you because you’re so full of love already that you
know that it’s not going to look certain ways. And right there you have
twisted or biased your listening, your attentiveness, and whatever does
come through will have to twist itself way through your bias. And if it
doesn’t fit your bias, you won’t recognize it and your opportunity to
engage in an Act of Love, the Atonement, simply won’t happen.

Now, I said in the Course, you are the salvation of the world and I’m
going to ask you, how well have you done this past week being the
salvation of the world? I’m not going to ask for an answer. [audience
laughter] But I ask the question because the majority of you forgot to
think about that. I’m not saying that you forgot to think about turning
toward the Altar, but I am saying that you didn’t remember the fullness
of what it means to turn toward the Altar. What it means is that you
become the salvation of the world.

Fear in you might say, “Well that’s a pretty tall order.” But in the
absence of fear, it’s seen as Fulfillment of Purpose. It’s seen as the
greatness of your Essential Being, the maximal fullness of the gift you
have to bring. You are the salvation of the world. At the least you can
see that your willingness to abandon your well-established definitions
of everything puts you in a position of your seeing your world with less
bias. And if you were able to be completely free of your
agreed-upon-definitions and biases, you would be able to see the world
and universe as the Kingdom of Heaven that it actually is. You would be
able to see totally clearly. So in that sense you can grasp just how
completely you govern what you’re experiencing. In that sense you can
see that you are the salvation of the world you’re seeing. Do you see
that?

So, what you could miss out on is the fact that when you are seeing the
world through the eyes of salvation, perfectly in other words, you have
withdrawn from the mutually-agreed-upon definitions that constitute the
joining that is mutual dreaming and you have lessened the dream. And you
also have become I’m going to call it a maximal agent for change because
everything that comes from you is pure Love that answers the call for
Love from others with Love, which lays the groundwork for everyone that
you’re in touch with to have an experience of more safety that allows
them to trust more and for everyone in the Brotherhood who is still
dreaming dreams that you are not in one-on-one contact that you know of.
Everyone is blessed as well. And so your simple clarity in which the
world you see is saved, is seen without bias, demonstrates the fact that
you are the salvation of the world, and it blesses everyone else as
well. So it’s more than just you having a clearer picture of everything.

Okay, let’s continue . . .

It is also why you may believe from time to time that I am misdirecting
you. I have made every effort to use words that are almost impossible to
distort, but it is always possible to twist symbols around if you wish.  

Ain’t that the truth! I want you to realize that it’s your habit, every
single one of you, it’s your habit to twist symbols around because
that’s how you maintain the mutually-agreed-upon definitions.

So it’s not only always possible to twist symbols around if you wish,
you wish to do it all the time. And what I’m engaged in with you and
what the Course is engaged in with you is to inspire you to try
abandoning twisting the symbols around, and daring to look at things
with fresh eyes, even if it’s just for a moment, even if it’s just a
momentary wish not to twist the symbols. Okay?

I just want you to understand that it’s not only always possible to
twist symbols around if you wish, at the present time you wish to twist
them all the time. You’re breaking that habit, but don’t believe that
you’ve left the habit behind yet. This is part of the correction that’s
needed of being in a new way, which means perceiving in a new way and
behaving on the basis of the new perception in a new way. Not by design.
“Oh, we ought to be like this. We should be like that.” But whatever way
it is, when you’re filled with the inspiration of Clarity and Truth and
Love that infills you when you turn toward the Altar, and embodying
that, whatever it is, whether it’s a surprise to you or not.

Okay . . .

Sacrifice is a notion totally unknown to God. It arises solely from
fear, and frightened people can be vicious. Sacrificing in any way is a
violation of my injunction that you should be merciful even as your
Father in Heaven is merciful. It has been hard for many Christians to
realize that this applies to themselves. Good teachers never terrorize
their students. To terrorize is to attack, and this results in rejection
of what the teacher offers. The result is learning failure.  

Is anyone unclear about that? God doesn’t terrorize you. I don’t
terrorize you. And here we’re specifically talking about terrorizing
with the threat of sacrifice. Remember that we’re talking about one of
the last fears that will present itself to you, that being that God is a
whimsical, flip-flop God who can be loving and hateful, who can provide
relief as well as suffering for your own good, for your own growth. The
suggestion that you will have to sacrifice is a form of terrorizing.
God’s Law for you is Fulfillment, not sacrifice. God’s Law for you is
Fulfillment, not sacrifice. It is the Father’s good pleasure to give you
the Kingdom, the whole ball of wax. All that He is being He gives to you
as You.

That’s like the laws of mathematics. They’re not there so that if you
break them, you will be penalized. It’s just the way things work—the
perfect way things work. It’s God’s Law that Fulfillment is your
Birthright. If God is going to enforce anything, it’s going to be the
Experience of that Fulfillment. So you could say God is on your side, so
much on your side that you can’t really succeed at getting on another
side yourself where you’re on your own deciding what things will be and
what they won’t be, what they are and what they aren’t, and making up
your own rules.

Continue . . .

I have been correctly referred to as “the lamb of God who taketh away
the sins of the world,” but those who represent the lamb as
blood-stained do not understand the meaning of the symbol. Correctly
understood, it is a very simple symbol that speaks of my innocence. The
lion and the lamb lying down together symbolize that strength and
innocence are not in conflict, but naturally live in peace.  

Okay. I am the lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. Sounds
pretty special. Wow! Or the ego could make it sound pretty special. But
you know what? It’s more a State of Being than an individuality with a
role. When you choose for your peace and you go within and you find that
your peace is available to you, you find freedom from fear. And freedom
from fear is a direct experience of your innocence, your purity. It is
your experience of being the lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the
world by virtue of your not magnifying the sins of the world, but rather
having turned from your own private, distorted perceptions which have
scared you to death, and turning toward God by choosing for peace when
your ego has said there’s no justification for it and it’s unavailable
to you.

The next sentence says:

The lion and the lamb lying down together symbolize that strength and
innocence are not in conflict, but naturally live in peace.  

When you choose for your peace and you move into it, you find that you
are at once strong and innocent. The experience of innocence and
therefore guiltlessness means that you are undivided and indivisible.
And that which is indivisible has no weaknesses. It has pure integrity,
and pure integrity is like, for lack of better words, structural
strength. It’s like a very well-built car that has structural integrity
that doesn’t rattle or shake or shimmy, and you feel its integrity when
you drive it.

So, please, don’t attribute great significance to me being the lamb of
God who taketh away the sins of the world. You each hold within you the
capacity and the obligation to be the lamb of God who taketh away the
sins of the world you’re seeing, so that you are the salvation of the
world you’re seeing, and thereby an agent for change that transforms
anyone else who is still dreaming dreams.

Continue . . .

“Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God” is another way of
saying the same thing. A pure mind knows the truth and this is its
strength. It does not confuse destruction with innocence because it
associates innocence with strength, not with weakness.  

And you know what? It associates it not through a process of thinking
but as a direct, inner experience. Why do I say this? Because I want to
keep you focused on the experience of turning toward the Altar, the
experience of hearing the Voice for Truth, the Presence of God infilling
you so that your behavior is a spontaneous outcome of that influx,
rather than a result of a consciously directed, thought-out choice.

Okay.

So the behavior then can take on a number of different forms and be
appropriate if we have turned towards the Altar first and we’re
inspired.

Absolutely. Are your fingerprints identical to anyone else in the world?
No.

No.

That’s how original the Expression of God is.

That could be a mistake to look at a form and say that was not an
inspired Act of God because it should not look like such-and-such.

That is quite correct because you know what? You could just happen to be
the one that someone else looks at and says, “That is not a legitimate
form there.” Absolutely.

No one else can make your gift. No one else can make the Gift of the
Presence Of God That God Is Being right there where you are. Therefore,
your Presence has to be unique. God never stops to repeat Himself.
“Behold, I make all things new.”

How do you recognize a call for Love? I mean what comes to me when I say
that is you can’t recognize a call for Love by looking out there and
seeing a certain form. How I would recognize a call for Love is again to
turn towards the Altar and ask and feel whether that is a call for Love.
Is that correct?

No. That is a careless abandonment of common sense. All of you know what
a call for Love is because it hurts. Because you don’t feel good when
it’s happening. It’s real simple. And sometimes some of you try to gloss
it over, talk it away. But you need to learn to trust your innate
capacity to recognize a call for Love because it doesn’t feel good.

Makes a lot of sense.

Indeed. You see, God hasn’t made it difficult to wake up. It’s natural
to be awake. And everything about waking up is as simple as what I just
said.

Okay. Continue . . .

Innocence is incapable of sacrificing anything, because the innocent
mind has everything and strives only to protect its wholeness.  

Now, let me just interrupt. How does it protect its wholeness? By not
being tempted to entertain any other experience than the experience of
wholeness. It protects its wholeness by giving its full attention to its
wholeness in the same way that one protects Truth. One protects Truth
not by defending it against something else, but by loving it wholly. By
loving it and giving your attention to it more than you’re willing to
give it to anything else. You protect Truth, you protect innocence by
being totally committed to it. You see?

Continue . . .

It cannot project. It can only honor other minds, because honor is the
natural greeting of the truly loved to others who are like them. The
lamb “taketh away the sins of the world” in the sense that the state of
innocence, or grace, is one in which the meaning of the Atonement is
perfectly apparent. The Atonement is entirely unambiguous.  

And it’s unambiguous because it’s so utterly simple. Love is Love. Love
felt is Love that can’t help but illuminate you and thus illuminate the
world.

Continue . . .

It is perfectly clear because it exists in light. Only the attempts to
shroud it in darkness have made it inaccessible to those who do not
choose to see.  

Continue . . .

The Atonement itself radiates nothing but truth. It therefore epitomizes
harmlessness and sheds only blessing. It could not do this if it arose
from anything but perfect innocence. Innocence is wisdom because it is
unaware of evil, and evil does not exist. It is, however, perfectly
aware of everything that is true. The resurrection demonstrated that
nothing can destroy truth. Good can withstand any form of evil, as light
abolishes forms of darkness. The Atonement is therefore the perfect
lesson.  

Yes. Say that again.

The Atonement is therefore the perfect lesson.  

And it’s utterly simple. The Atonement is, I’m going to say, the
inspired Act of Love. How much simpler could you get?  That’s all it
takes to wake up. The willingness to engage in, to be the channel for
the inspired Act of Love emanating from the Father—the forever
commitment to that. That’s all the more complicated it is. I want you to
keep this in mind. It’s the perfect lesson, because it’s the lesson that
undoes all illusion. And it’s the perfect lesson because it’s so utterly
simple.

Continue . . .

It is the final demonstration that all the other lessons I taught are
true. If you can accept this one generalization now, there will be no
need to learn from many smaller lessons. You are released from all
errors if you believe this.  

Indeed. Continue . . .

You have a question?

I had a discussion with a gentleman today and he was very depressed. And
the reason was is he sees the environment being compromised by the
withdrawal from conservation measures. He sees peace being compromised
because of war. He sees the Vice President of the United States being
awarded huge sums of money . . .

I’m going to say something.

Yep.

This is part of the misperception. He sees peace being compromised
because of war.

Yes.

What he sees is peace being called for and resisted. It is not peace
being compromised. Peace called for and not responded to would be peace
compromised. Continue with the question.

Okay. Generally, I guess, if you look at the condition of the world as
it is today it looks a lot worse than it did yesterday or the day
before.

Transformation always looks like that because it upsets the status quo
while transformation occurs.

Okay. But relatively speaking, to this gentleman as well as many others,
the world looks like it’s in the state of degeneration with global
warming, etc., etc. And every time you pick up the newspaper, there’s
another incredible affront to what many people would call good common
sense, and, you know, righteousness, et cetera. So the question is how
does one, short of burying your head in the sand, keep lighthearted or
have a positive attitude when there are so many things that seem to be
challenging goodness?

By getting off the fence. By becoming involved. By beginning to actively
embody all the Truth you’ve been so wonderfully studying and feeling
such uplift from when there didn’t seem to be a call for you to
consciously and specifically embody it.

It’s one thing to easily and merrily go along your way and say, “God is
Love. And God loves me and God loves the whole world. All is well. All
is well.” It’s one thing to do that when there aren’t challenges. But
when there are challenges, it becomes a requirement to do it, not as a
nice idea, but because in the presence of the invitation to abandon your
peace and engage in fear, you must not allow yourself to forget your
Function. You don’t  maintain your peace in airy-fairy platitudes. You
accept the call for Love. You accept the call for Love because it calls
to you, and you get to work, and you find it important enough to be that
Place where God can be embodied. You could look at it this way. You
could look at as though you have all been healers held in trust for the
occasion where healing was called for.

Now, if I said to you that you were all ordained by God to be healers,
your egos would like that, and you at a deeper level might find that
inspiring. But remember you are the salvation of the world. That’s your
Function. And so the call for Love is calling for you to fulfill your
Function. And you’ve got to abandon the desire to have a dreamy state in
which to be the Presence of Love, an idyllic state in which to be the
Presence of Love. Because the Presence of Love is called for where Love
seems to have been lost and people are behaving as though they are not
loved and Love is not available to them and it’s your Function to show
them otherwise. So, what can I say? It’s time . . . it’s time to roll up
your sleeves and answer the call and stop wishing for some better
circumstance in which to be the Presence of Love. Once you begin to feel
your Function as the Presence of Love embodying in the world, the
stresses of the call for Love will stop distracting you from the
pleasure of being the place where Love is embodied and where those
calling for Love can find safety and security so that they can dare to
feel Love and be able to extend it.

Hey, if you want to be able to be the Presence of Love in the middle of
peace, come on Home to the Kingdom of Heaven. Come on Home and be with
Us who are awake, because there you can have the pleasant experience of
being the Presence of Love.

Where the Presence of Love is needed is where the call for Love is being
made. And that’s where all of you are standing in receipt of the call
for Love. Having been called out of inactive duty as healers to be in
active duty. “Whoa! That looks like it might be a little bit... require
a little bit of effort. That’s going to change my routine, I’ll tell
you.” But, you know what? The routine you’ve been in is the one that has
promoted the dream.

And the effort you’re going to have to put forth is one which if you put
it forth, will disclose to you a capacity and a strength to be the
Presence of Love that you didn’t realize that you had, and you will find
it to be effortless, not more effort. And that’s the way a new habit
will emerge, a new way of being all the time because it’s not only your
Birthright, it’s your Function and it’s your Joy. At the bottom line, it
is your Joy. You don’t see it yet, but it’s awaiting you. But it’s going
to take conscious, conscientious attention. You see? And that won’t be a
wonderful dreamy experience. It’ll be a vital, fulfilling experience.
Not ego-fulfilling, but fulfilling because for you it will be the
Experience of the Presence of God in You that shines away any ego
satisfaction that you might have thought you would have from such an
experience. One which lets God stand forth and demonstrates to you What
You Are as What God Is Choosing For You To Be, which is where your full
satisfaction and full joy of being lies.

Can I bring this . . . perhaps it would be easier for us to understand
if I brought it to an actual situation. A lot of people have gone out
and demonstrated for peace. And a lot of people have gone out and
demonstrated for war. So let’s take one side. Okay, a lot of people go
out and demonstrate for peace, and the newspaper reporters ask President
Bush, what does he think about all the people all over the world
demonstrating for peace?  And his response was, “Well, I think it’s
great that people have the ability or the freedom to go out and
demonstrate. But actually I really don’t care, because I’m going to do
what I’m going to do.” And for those people who are out demonstrating
for peace, they can look at that and become tremendously exasperated as
him not being representative of their . . . of the majority or whatever.
So, the answer then is to replace the exasperation with, “I really love
George Bush but he’s just got a little bit of a misperception right now
and I’m going to love him through it.” Is that what you’re saying?

Well, that statement is something that did not come from having turned
toward the Altar and listened for What To Be relative to the question,
relative to the distress.

What? You mean the last statement I made about loving George Bush?

That I love George Bush, but blah, blah, blah. Yes. You can’t t know
ahead of time what you’ll be saying.

Right. But I mean when you’re exasperated, it’s a difficult . . .

You’ve lost your peace.

Yes. And it’s a difficult thing to turn to the Altar and hear anything
except . . .

Only because you value your aggravation more than the great benefit . .
.

Right.

. . . of your peace.

So let me rephrase it then. How do you get past that? How do you get
past the exasperation [audience laughter] so you can hear what the
appropriate response to George Bush, or to his statement, or to the
environmental problems, or all the myriad of problems that we’re faced
with now at this point in time, this interesting time that we live in?

Well therein lies the work.

So it’s just a matter of being still until it passes?

No! [audience amusement] You become still . . . you become still until
you know the answer.

That’s what I’m saying, until the exasperation passes so you can get
clear enough to be able to hear.

Yes.

I didn’t mean until the world passes away and we’re in the Kingdom.
[more audience amusement]

That is correct.

Well thank you.

You are welcome.

Raj, in response to Michael’s question, it occurred to me today I kind
of had a revelation that, and in accordance to what you’re saying
tonight, in order to be the Presence of Love, we have to first of all,
when the call for Love presents itself recognize it’s coming from
misperceptions. These are definitions we’ve given everything. So the
definitions have to be addressed. I mean, for example, today I realized
we’re not at war, we’re at transformation, and that the answer is moving
because the Movement of God is the only thing going on. So war is a
definition that the media has given to describe the corrective action
that is being taken. Now, that gave me a whole different feeling, that
realization.

Indeed.

And so, my point being is we’ve got to address these definitions. When
we’re in conversation with people and they are upset because they’re
drowning in definitions of what they think they’re seeing, we have . . .
that’s our opportunity to clarify what it . . . was really going on, to
be helpful in clarifying what is really going on.

Yes. However, having had this realization today and the capacity to
restate it in those words doesn’t mean that that will be sufficient to
the day tomorrow. So don’t expect that now you’ll have a wonderfully
concise way of expressing it that you will be able to use indefinitely,
that will naturally be beneficial to everyone who hears it. What I want
you to do is to continue to stand at the threshold of clarification so
that tomorrow you have whatever is given to you to know to share.

What is marvelous about what you have just shared is not what you have
shared, is not what you have shared, but the freshness of it. The
illumination of you having experienced a light bulb going on.

Yeah. That’s . . . what the . . . but the message was . . .

Today’s light bulb will not illuminate tomorrow. That’s what I want to .
. . that’s what I want you . . .

Okay. So, in other words, we have . . . we can’t drag the previous
definition of the illumination into tomorrow’s experience, or the next
moment’s experience. It has to be illumination, illumination,
illumination.

Exactly! Experience, experience, experience. Not idea, idea, idea.

Okay. I got it.

Okay.

Thank you.

You see, the marvelousness of our being together is not what I’m saying
but the freshness of the Gift that Paul is making by standing at the
threshold. And next week, if we were to talk about these very pages
we’ve been reading from tonight, I would not repeat myself.

The Gift lies in the spontaneity and the freshness of the Presence of
Truth and Clarity in each and every moment that comes forth when one is
not in one’s head and when one’s thinking is not generating one’s words.
That’s the Act of Love.

I am amazed sometimes when I look back at what I said because I wasn’t
thinking about it when it was said.

Indeed.

I mean it just kind of rolled. If I start to think, then I get all . . .
then I go into reaction.

Everyone does. Indeed.

I think I . . .

So when you look back and experience amazement, what you’re really being
amazed at is the fact that there really is a God.

Yeah.

And it was your Experience of Being at that moment, and therefore
ultimately it was you being more truly What You Are than you can
possibly be when you’re thinking.

What I also experience when those moments, thank God, are happening for
me, is that I feel so grounded. It’s like I am . . . nothing can shake
me.

That is the strength of innocence. But it’s not an authority or power
over anything.

No, it’s just . . .

It’s just the utter immovability of everything that’s true about you.
The utter unchangeability of everything that’s true about you. And every
time you experience that, you make that Gift because your behavior with
your Brothers at that moment is entirely different from the way it is
when you’re behaving as a result of thinking.

Concepts.

Exactly.

I just have a comment.

Indeed.

When you’re talking about how we benefit from the joy, I know that’s
true. I’ve experienced that. And what I’m finding is that whenever I
approach someone, I really love that person and that’s what I see, and
because of that, that’s like the basis of it. That’s how I get more joy
and it grows stronger and it . . . I guess most of what I say is that
it’s that approach of loving somebody that I see first, and if I get
upset, I quickly remind myself, “Wrong. Love that person.” And just
loving a person always brings you right back. That’s the goal. That’s
our job. Just love each other.

Okay. Now this is sort of like the ten commandments. Love each other and
remind yourself to love each other. And of course, the patterned
behavior you’re describing “to remember to do this, remember to do
this,” is great for those who have forgotten how to Love. It isn’t
really love yet. It’s a good, intelligent practice.

It’s developing a habit.

Yes. But what I want you to develop the habit of is, I’m going to say,
in addition to remembering to love your neighbor, to find even more
value in turning toward the Altar so that God might give you the Vision
of your Brother that is a Vision of Love that will spontaneously result
in behavior that will identify God’s Vision and Purpose, rather than a
practical and intelligent and humanly beneficial practice.

I understand. And when I do, do that, I don’t ever feel alone. I feel
God’s right with me.

Indeed.

I don’t like going without God.

And that’s really where the Joy, that’s where the real Joy is. You get
good feelings from remembering to Love your Brother and doing it and
seeing that it has a better result than misbehaving with your Brother.
But the Joy comes from the undeniable Experience of God’s Presence in
the whole thing. That’s what I’m homing in on here is the experience.
And I’m homing in on your rolling up your sleeves and engaging in the
work of answering the call for Love where the call for Love is being
made, rather than saying, “Well there must be something wrong because
everything seems so much more stressful. I really would like to be the
Presence of Love under less . . . when the call for Love is less
strenuous.” But you know what? Where the call is most strenuous is the
place where it is most needed and it is the place where when the Love is
gifted, the most transformation can occur.

I find it extremely easy, well not extremely. I find it very easy here
in the northwest to see people under stress and yet it’s so easy for me
to look beyond that, because when you’re in stress you have a tendency
to lash out at people and not really be at your best. But for some
reason, up here, it’s just so much easier for me to see right through
that, to see the person is hurting.

Your stress level is lower. They’re not different, but you are. And
that’s what’s making it easier. You’re experiencing less stress,
therefore automatic defense is not coming into play, and with less
defense you are available for the Father’s Perspective to register with
you.

That’s good.

Yes.

Okay, so, next week, I will probably ask you again, “You are the
salvation of the world. How did you do this last week?” I probably won’t
make you answer, but don’t depend upon it. The point is I just want to
set your mind in an attitude that includes your Function so that you
might bring it in conscious play every day.

We have nothing else to do.

Nothing real, anyway. [audience laughter] Indeed.

I love you all.

Thank you, Raj.

And I hope you all have a better week. Not one in which there are fewer
calls for Love, or less strenuous calls for Love, but one in which you
willingly face the calls for Love with the willingness to let the answer
to the calls for Love come through you because you really do want to
fulfill your Function as the savior of the world, saviors of the world.
Because you really do want to be healers. I use that word because almost
every one of you likes that idea. And so you can transfer it to the
words I’ve used which are, “you are the saviors of the world.” You don’t
like that one as much because it seems to involve some great
responsibility. Well, it’s not ego-type greatness, but it is great
because whether you see the Integrity and the Presence of the Kingdom of
Heaven, or not, is up to you. And it will be a profound experience for
all of you to be experiencing the world and universe as the Kingdom of
Heaven.

So you have not a daunting task in front of you, but a wonderful task
that it’s your Birthright to experience and which you have the innate
capacity to embody. But we’re down to the embodiment time. We’re out of
the head trip time. We’re out of the wonderful ideas in A Course in
Miracles and into the practical transformational experiential meaning of
those words.

I will look forward to being with you next week.

Chapter 3 – RETRAINING THE MIND – Section: ATONEMENT WITHOUT SACRIFICE
(Raj did not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July 2003,
therefore, there can be a lot of difference in the readings.) Sparkly
Book – p.48, 1st Full Par.   /   JCIM – p.20, 3rd Full Par.   /   CIMS –
p.41, Par. 15 Chapter 3 – THE INNOCENT PERCEPTION – Section:  ATTONEMENT
WITHOUT SACRIFICE 1First Edition  –  p. 32   /    Second Edition – p 36,
Par. 3 2 Students – commenting or asking a question.
