---
title: Apr 10, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Okay. Good evening.  It is good to see all of you. 

Before we begin, there are a couple of announcements. The first is that
there is a need for financial support. This particular month is one of
the two months out of the year that the Foundation has to pay property
taxes, which amount to $2,500. And at the present moment, those funds
are not present, and they’re due on the last day of the month. Also,
generally speaking, over the last three or four months, there has been a
very noticeable increase in the amount of support that has been coming
in, and it is allowing, how shall I say it, it is allowing the
Foundation to pay its bills within the month that the bills arrive. And
it is allowing the Foundation to pay Chris for the tremendous work he is
doing to maintain the website and master the audiotapes and everything
he does. But it is not sufficient to free him from having to find other
employment, and so we continue to be faced with the loss of his help at
any moment when he finds work. And I encourage everyone who finds the
work that all of us are doing valuable and who wish to see it shared to
help financially. For those of you who are new here and may not be aware
of it, we do have a contribution bowl over on the table at the top of
the stairs.

And the last announcement is that next Thursday there will be no
Gathering, and we will resume the following Thursday. Okay.

What a week! What a week! Regardless of what any of you may think about
the way everything has happened, you cannot escape being aware of joy
being experienced and expressed by many, I will say, of the Iraqi
people. Don’t overlook that or minimize it because of what I will call
your practice of faithlessness. Something more significant than just
overthrowing Saddam Hussein’s regime is happening.

Now, before we begin, I just want to have everyone look at the dynamics.
The coalition forces have moved into Iraq in the south and moved north.
The end result so far has been the liberation of the Iraqi people from a
harsh, hateful dictatorship. Because of the instant availability of
information through the media and the availability of information from
other than your usual sources, I mean by that the Al Jazeera TV Network,
other countries’ documentation of the happening, you know that whatever
it is that’s happening is being seen in many different ways. Correct?
Obviously through different lenses. And the different lenses are what
they are because of the mutually-agreed-upon definitions employed by
those areas that are using those lenses and for the purposes of those in
those areas. And the purposes in those areas are, as it is with everyone
everywhere in every country, the maintenance of the status quo,
self-protection in other words, and the preservation of even financial
security.

Now, even among the Iraqi people, they are seeing this through different
lenses. And it’s in this respect that I want you to notice that you can
find yourselves in exactly the same position.

Liberation is occurring. The end of oppression, or shall I say the
current regime of oppression, the ending of it is occurring. In other
words, the good of the Iraqi people is in their face. Like I’ve said to
all of you, at every single moment the only thing confronting you is the
Kingdom of Heaven no matter how you are choosing to define it, and
therefore, see it.

There are others who are seeing their good as beneficial but perhaps
ultimately threatening. Is it colonialism that is occurring, or is it
really liberation? Can we trust our Good? You see? You all have that
problem.

I keep saying, “Turn toward the Altar. Go within and ask to be talked to
by the Father so that you might experience His perspective.” And some of
you smile joyfully and say, “Okay!” And others of you say, “You know
this sounds really good, but I don’t know if I dare to trust it because
I’m not sure of the real nature of God.”

We’ve been talking about this just in the last few weeks, that fact that
it’s easy to perceive God who is indivisible as sometimes
whimsical—sometimes loving, sometimes hateful. Sometimes answering your
prayers and sometimes not, without any particularly good reason, but
just because. And so there is lack of trust of your Good.

Now, it’s obvious to most everyone that when a dictatorship ends, when
the rule of a dictatorship ends, it becomes utterly obvious that all
government is self-government. Ah, and this is what I’ve been talking
about, what all of us have been considering. And that is, “Oh dear! This
is going to bring new responsibility if I am going to choose to listen
to God and yield to God.” Because why? Because you’re going to end up
being the salvation of the world. “Oh, my God! Such responsibility I
will have! I will have to be conscientious and unswerving in my
allegiance to protecting Truth by loving it so completely that I let
nothing else enter my mind to distract me from Truth and therefore, its
spontaneous embodiment.” You see?

 There are those in Iraq who are afraid of this. “I don’t know if we’ll
 be able to do it. I don’t know if I want to. I’ve become comfortable
 letting someone else take care of that for me.” And for all of you,
 it’s something else that takes care of that for you, and it’s your ego.
 You see? And so there’s the tendency to be lazy and sloppy and casual
 about it, about your Awakening, because the Good that’s in front of
 your face appears to suggest that it’s going to be more work for you.
 Things are going to be worse than they were when you were
 self-satisfied operating within the ego’s frame of reference.

So, all of the dynamics of Awakening are illustrated in what’s going on
in Iraq. The presence of the availability of Freedom is being seen
through many different lenses. And each one of you has many different
lenses. It isn’t just that one of you has a different lens from another,
depending upon the circumstance. You are agreeable to Awakening and
listening to the Father, and in another instance you’re not. It
frightens you.

 But, as with the Iraqi people, it will be worth the effort to take on
 the task of being self-governed because it will mean their ability to
 be free. To be free to honestly be out from their best use of
 intelligence, and thus feel their integrity embodied in their land.

And this is what all of you are faced with, even though there’s no
apparent war going on.

Now, there’s another aspect of this that will be helpful for you,
because if, indeed, you are the salvation of the world, as we’ve talked
about the last couple of weeks, it means that you will be the
liberators. And again, regardless of the opinions and biases that you
have or have been supplied to you by the media, the fact is that the
liberators here have not been popular. “Ooh! Does that mean that if
you’re going to be the salvation of the world, you might not be
popular?” Yes, it does. “Does it mean that you may have to stand and
embody the Father’s perspective, the Father’s Will, in spite of the
misinterpretations of it that will occur, and which will cause you to be
belittled and slandered and disliked and spoken ill of?” Yes, it does.

It means that you’re going to have to be dedicated to Truth whether it
is clearly understood for what it is, or not. Why? Because you know
there’s nothing more important than that. You know that there is nothing
more important, in terms of awakening for yourself and your Brothers,
than for you to honor Truth totally from the tips of your toes. And you
know what? Doing that isn’t going to take courage, but daring to listen
to the Father so that you’re infilled with that which is to be embodied,
as well as the energy to do it. That is where the effort and the work
and the conscientiousness is going to have to come into play.

And I’ve heard you say that’s us embracing our Good. 1

Indeed. Indeed. Now, mind you, being the salvation of the world is not
the goal. It’s a side effect. It’s secondary to you coming back into
your Right Mind because you have decided that you no longer want to be
tormented and oppressed by the dictatorial regime of ignorance. Do you
get that?

Then when you do that, and you let the energy in, your faces and your
bodies and your movements will be lit up the way the Iraqi people were
who let their joy out, and everyone will be blessed.

None of what this book says and none of what we’ve been talking about
means anything unless it brings about an actual change in you that
causes you to embody something different from what you have been
embodying and confirming and maintaining because you have
inappropriately felt vulnerable, and therefore, everything you have been
doing has been done for self-protection. And that’s not a gift. That’s
something you’re taking from everyone else and depleting everyone else,
and what they’re taking from you.

Now, as we continue on week to week, during the week, please remember
that it’s not about remembering what we’ve talked about, but it is about
daring to begin to practice what we’ve been talking about by counting it
as extremely important for each of you to be connecting with your
Source, so that you no longer attempt to act independent of it and
thereby continue to confirm your being subject to the totalitarian,
cruel results of ignorance.

You could say that the Course is here at this particular time as a
Liberator that has come into your experience. Your Guides, your Brothers
who are fully awake, who stand at the ready with you every moment to
convey to you the true Vision, are your Liberators. Liberation is at
hand. It has been all along, but it’s more obvious. Embodied. Embodied
in your world is more evidence of Liberation and your Liberators.

Now what aspect of the Iraqi society are you going to fall into,
relative to your Liberators? Are you going to see them for what they are
and grab on to them and thank them and let gratitude pour from you, and
let their presence cause you to dishonor the unjust laws that have bound
you because you have committed yourself to mutually-agreed-upon
definitions that don’t express the Father’s Will? Or are you going to
weigh in the balances what it’s going to cost you? And what’s the real
motive of these liberators? Is it what they say?

I mean, after all, if your Guide is saying to you, “Let me respond to
everything. Lean on me and let me respond to everything, so that in the
absence of your expressing self-will, you might more quickly remember
your innate capacity and ability to be the immediate expresser of the
Father’s Will.”

 You see, you could say, “Well, how do I know I’m not listening to an
 evil spirit. And that if I do this, and let Him or Her respond to
 everything, and I, in my personal sense of power back out of the
 picture, how do I know that I’m not going to be overtaken by this
 so-called Guide, this one who says He’s awakened?” Do you see what I’m
 saying? This is the way the ego works.

You know what? You’re going to have to risk the chance. Because even if
you yield, you don’t have to abandon your intelligence. You don’t have
to abandon your common sense. You don’t have to become stupid. You will
always have the capacity to call it to a stop. But you’re going to have
to, nevertheless, step over the line and make commitment to your
Liberators, so that may show you how to be liberated within yourself as
a matter of self-government.

And by self-government, I don’t mean what you have called
self-government which has meant being a really good ego. I mean
self-government where distinctions are being made by you between Truth
and error, and the choice being made for Truth. A distinction being made
between Love and hate, and the choice being made for Love so that you
protect Love by not indulging in anything else. By protecting Truth by
not expressing anything else, not being fascinated by anything else. You
see? Being single of mind, single of intent, where there’s no confusion
within you. That’s where the self-government comes in, making the
distinction and making the choice, and making the choice wholly
(w-h-o-l-l-y), unequivocally and permanently.

I could go on and on. I would like for you all to, let’s say, do a
little of your own work and consider the dynamics of what has occurred
this week, and how there is transfer value regarding it and regarding
you in your processes of awakening and the ego dynamics you’re having to
deal with.

I cannot close my remarks without reiterating that to become immobilized
and to take no action whatsoever until you can do it with utter
spiritual perfection, even when you recognize the call for Love and the
call for protecting the Truth of your Brothers . . .

(I’m sorry. This is me, Paul. I lost it.)

You have seen actions take place over the past number of weeks. You have
seen the embodiment of Love. Do not minimize it by saying there must
have been another way to do it. If another way to do it had been
available, it would have been used. And everyone who has said there is
another way to do it has not stated what it is, and so there was nothing
to implement. And so, you will find that as you allow yourselves to be
the salvation of the world, you will be guided to do what will work,
whether it’s the ultimate or not. And you must dare to take the actions
that embody liberation, whether they are ultimately spiritual or not.
Because I promise you: The Liberation is Real. Don’t let yourselves be
immobilized. I want to let what I’ve said set for now and to go directly
into the book.

Nothing can prevail against a Son of God who commends his spirit into
the Hands of his Father. 2

Oooh!

By doing this the mind awakens from its sleep and remembers its Creator. 

Or maybe becomes subject to an evil spirit. [Audience laughter.]
Tsk-tsk! Mmm! [Audience laughter.] And how are you going to know which
it is?

You’ve got to try it.

You’ve got to try it. That’s right. You risk the chance. Else all you’re
doing is covering your ass and you’re stuck. You’re stuck with what
you’ve got in your hand.

Trust is risk.

Trust is… trust feels risky but only to those who have not trusted in a
very long time and have forgotten the immediate influx of the Experience
of Integrity and Invulnerability that comes from it. And so I’m here to
remind you that that is what will be experienced. But no matter how much
I say it, it’s not going to prove it to you. The only thing that’s going
to prove it to you is for you to at least play around with it,
experiment with it, if not attempt it with genuine commitment.

Continue . . .

Julie would like to ask a question.

Very well.

What you were saying on a personal level, which I have to apply, you
know, what’s going on globally on a personal level for it to sink in,
but it’s definitely a wonderful mirror. And I think what I see . . .
that my own little dictator does in my mind is it stands ready to
criticize the attempt. The times that I practice and perhaps slip, it
tries to use that to promote the faithlessness. It tries to use that as
some kind of evidence that the effort isn’t worthwhile.

Indeed.

And I think what I really got, in the last couple of days especially,
was that it’s really okay to go through the rough and tumble effort, the
process of getting there, because as we keep it up, it’ll get smoother
and smoother and easier and easier. And I think to not be dissuaded, not
be led astray by the work, because it’s practice. It’s like in the short
term it takes practice and it’s not going to be perfect, but like you
were saying, not to wait till we can do it perfectly before we even
begin on the journey. To let it be okay to practice, and to keep putting
[forth] the effort, and to not to let the times that it’s not perfect
[be] used as some kind of evidence that the work isn’t taking place, or
isn’t growth, or that there isn’t the end result, isn’t leading it to a
more positive place.

That’s like the biggest breakthrough for me, I think, that I’ve had
recently is to let the process happen and to let it be okay that it’s
not completely smooth. And to kind of keep the vision ahead that . . .
and the trust that it’s getting there.

Yes. Yes. It’s the practice that is the point. It is the persistence and
the conscientiousness, whether [laugh], whether it’s smooth and whether
you’re praised for it, or not. And whether your ego has shut up, or not.
As I’ve said before, the only thing your ego can’t defend itself against
is disregard.

And every time we begin again, that’s a disregard.

Exactly.

Every time we get back up, and you know, like in Iraq, there are going
to be those, because the rebuilding . . .

In our what?

In Iraq.

Oh. In Iraq.

I’m taking my personal example out global again. There’s going to be…
it’s not going to be a smooth process, rebuilding and restoring the
freedom. They’ve gone without it for so long. There’s going to be slips.
There’s going to be trials. There’s going to be times that it’s not
going to be so smooth, and there’re going to be those ever-ready to jump
with criticism and say, “See. It doesn’t work. See what. All that that
happened was for nothing.”

And there’s going to be a call for further witnessing on their behalf by
those who have the vision and experience. So as the coalition is aware,
you can’t just go in and liberate them without backing it up with the
support that it takes for a shift of perception to be embodied.

Yes.

As we practice faithfulness in ourselves, we have to keep giving it to
others because it strengthens it in ourselves. And we have to see it
through to the very end. There’s never like a moment that we can become
complacent and say, “okay, my work is done now,” and just leave it,
leave it alone. We’ve got to stick it out with them. I mean, this is the
first step. The first step is this initial liberation. And then after
that, it’s clearing the way because there’s still rubbish. There’s still
the wrong thinking. There’s still the ease of slipping back into
different patterns, and so we have to keep going, and going . . .

Okay.

. . . until it’s no longer habit.

I’m going to address something here that . . . there needs to be wisdom.
What you do is you witness for your Brother or your Sister. And if your
Brother or your Sister stands in receipt of it, you persist. I want you
to remember that there are those who have incarnated at this time—which
is the end of incarnations—for the purpose, the sole purpose of having
one last fling in the ego frame of reference. And they are totally
committed to it. And when you witness for them and hang in there with
them, and they deny you persistently, and see you as an aggressor
persistently, and see you as someone trying to, shall I say, colonialize
them and change them into what they call “your perspective of reality,”
you must be wise.

 I’ve used this analogy before. None of you have ever left the Kingdom
 of Heaven. You’re in it right now. And in effect, you’re lying on
 grassy knolls sleeping, having a dream. Those who are committed to
 their dreams, who are not beginning to rouse at all, we do not bother.
 No matter how rugged their dream, we do not bother. But the moment one
 of you begins to stir and we see the signs of consciousness returning,
 we are right there to help you by facilitating, by providing a point of
 focus in the world of consciousness, you might say, so that you have
 something to home in on as you rouse yourself further. We cannot rouse
 you. You must understand that we cannot make you wake up and you cannot
 make anyone else wake up.

So, you must be willing to listen for the wisdom that comes from within
to tell you when it is not appropriate to persist with a Brother who is
absolutely committed to his dream. And you bring your attention to those
who, like you, are beginning to wake up and who are curious and
interested, who are having problems but are not insisting on their
problems, and want to hear the Truth that will actually relieve them of
their problems. Those who are in the process of Awakening, those who are
stirring, who are becoming Conscious, with a capital “C,” are the ones
to bring the extension of Love to, because their Awakening, which will
happen more easily than those who are committed to their dreams, will
constitute their withdrawal from the mutually-agreed-upon definitions
that constitute the dream everyone else is in, which is going to weaken
the dream everyone else is in and cause them to spontaneously begin to
stir as well.

Yes! You all have free will and that free will is absolute. The key lies
in the fact that once your choice, once your expression of your free
will is to know what the Father’s Will is, you begin to wake up out of
your dream. Once your commitment to your ability, so-called ability to
authorize things on your own, once that has been called into question
and you have a curiosity about something more than that, then movement
of Awakening begins. And that is where those who are awake can meet you
and where their Presence can be experienced by you.

So, there are some that you won’t hang in with, not because of any
judgment, but because you recognize their commitment to their dream and
that they simply are not hearing anything that you are saying. And if
they are not hearing anything that you are saying, then intelligence and
wisdom says, “Give your attention where you can be heard, and where your
Love does register, and where the Father’s Will moving through you can
be experienced by them.” And by virtue of the experience, reminding them
back in the dim halls of their memory, you might say, of their Divine
Birthright. And that what they are getting a glimmer of, through you, is
a glimmer of Who They Really Are so that the “Aha!,” the light bulb can
go on. The “Aha!” can occur. And they rejoin themselves.

Many women try to find men to be in relationship with in order to save
them [the men]. They find flawed men with potential so that they can be
their savior. Well, the salvation happens very seldom. And the women who
attempt to do that often spend many years totally wasting their gift and
being miserable in the process. Why? Because you can’t override free
will. God’s power cannot override free will. It’s very simple. Learn
that fact so that you might attend to what will promote awakening. Does
anyone have a question about this?

Well, I have a couple.

Of course you do.

Well, I was going to let it slide until you asked but, are you saying
that the current administration is doing this because they have a higher
sense of purpose? Or are you saying they’re doing this and the Will of
God gets done no matter? You don’t have to answer that question.

Of course not. You already know the answer.

Do you know why I’m asking the question?

Of course I do.

Okay. Because there’s a lot of people out there that feel that the
current administration is not particularly a good one. And so when you
say that they’re rescuing or liberating the people of Iraq, that, I
think, creates consternation. And the impression that I get . . .

Isn’t that wonderful? [audience laughter]

What?

I’m not going to answer the question as you asked.

Oh.

Because I’m not talking about these evaluations. Everyone is very alert
on your globe right now and that’s what’s wonderful. And they are alert
in your country and they are alert in your government. And they are
alert in other countries and in other governments. And as a result of
the absence of lazy, slipshod mental attitudes, more than what anybody
planned on having happen will happen. And it will happen in ways that
truly express democracy and Brotherly Love, in ways that surpass prior
expressions of global Brotherly Love. Nobody’s going to get away with
anything.

Yeah. I totally see that. I mean I don’t have any problem with that. I
just want to delineate the fact that the current administration does not
have this higher sense of purpose that you’re talking about, because I
don’t see the consistency in the policies that they have across the
board. So, in other words, what I’m saying is that the Will of God
happens, period. It doesn’t make any difference, you know, what intent
we little ego . . . the little ego parts of us have. The Will of God
happens, regardless. In other words, the Holy Spirit prevails. And so
that’s where I see the greater good coming from this. And that’s what
I’m trying to . . . in other words, I don’t see you, Raj, saying . . .
taking... In other words, it could be interpreted from what you just
said that you feel that the current administration has this higher
purpose that we’re all missing—that we don’t see—that motivates them.
And what I’m saying is . . .

You want to know something?

What?

You’re right.

Oh.

I’m saying that the coalition has a moral vision that has escaped
everyone else. I am also saying that as with any other governmental act
that occurs, other agendas are getting attached to them that are
profiteering and not expressing the same moral vision. But I am saying,
yes, that those involved in the coalition have not moved here because of
the agendas, but because there has been a deep moral recognition that
they were not afraid to act upon. And that is all the further I will get
into politics.

I’m just trying to find . . . I’m not trying to get in pol- . . . I’m
just trying to discover what you’re saying and your particular views of
what’s going on. I mean I could care less as far as what’s going on in
the world. What I’m trying to do is to understand what you’re saying so
that everyone out there in radio-land doesn’t go: “Oh, well. Raj is a
Republican.” You see what I’m getting at?

I’m not even a Christian! How could I be a Republican? [audience
laughter]

Well, not all Republicans are Christians. [continued audience hilarity]

The second question . . .

Wait a minute before you ask the second question.

Michael, somehow I want to answer, to give you a response that’s come up
in me right now. And that response is . . .

Point it [the microphone] at your mouth.

Hello. [Testing microphone.] I agonize every time I move out into that
objective point of view. My cells hurt. The only thing that I can see in
my day, whatever crosses my path, it has to be a subjective experience,
and I have to ask, “What is the meaning of this for me?” It wouldn’t
matter whether it’s the war in Iraq or somebody at the grocery store. I
have to ask every moment and I ask of my Guide, “What meaning does this
have for me?”

 All I know is that yesterday when I went down and turned on the TV, I
 needed to look at somebody being joyful, because I felt so miserable
 yesterday. And that lifted my spirits. And so I want to get out of the
 historical view of things because I’m interested in transcending time.
 And the best way that I can transcend time is look for Meaning. The
 alternative to time is the experience of Meaning, and for me, history
 is not Meaning. So I have to respond not so much to you, but to a
 popular point of view, a certain path, that many say the way to Awaken
 is through an objective, uninvolved point of view. I can’t awake like
 that. So, that’s my response.

Yes.

I want to go off on a completely different tangent because I had a
little trouble this week in looking at my agreed-upon definitions and
realizing that that’s my whole life, everywhere I look, that’s where I’m
doing. And I was listening to one of your tapes and you were talking
about the picture that Glenda Green did. And you told the person that
was asking about that, not to get too, you know, hung up on the picture
because you wanted her to see you. And that got me thinking . . .

And not the image.

And not the image. And that got me thinking. I think maybe you were
helping me a little here: “If you’re going to look, look for an
experience.”

Indeed.

As opposed to… because I’m seeing myself. I always thought the way to
win was how I looked. I mean I got a lot of stuff by the way I used to
look. And then as I got older and I lost a lot of that stuff, I mean my
looks, life changed drastically, and I was pretty upset about that.
Well, we talked about that. Anyway, now I’m really having to give that
all up: How I look, or how somebody else looks. I don’t want that to
govern my thinking anymore. Because I would bypass so many beautiful
people because they were fat, they were tall. They were this, they were
in rags. They were begging. They were . . . and I just skipped by ‘em!

I will tell you that, in the beginning, Paul made me available to people
for private conversations. And over the first six months or so, all of
the conversations occurred over the phone. And Paul’s experience of
these people was, you might say, through my eyes. He had never seen
them. There was no image for him, and it is not that he had a different
kind of image, but he experienced them as lovable because I treated them
as though they were lovable. He experienced them as being capable of
experiencing healing or transformation because that is the way I was
treating them. And that is what would happen. And so when we had our
first Gathering and he had the opportunity to meet these people, it was
a little bit of a shock because, as you said, some were tall, some were
short. Some were fat, some were thin. And those were not the criteria
that he had been experiencing them with. And so, you are expressing a
Truth here: that what you, if no one is a body, if you are not a body,
and you are still free to be as God created thee . . .

Yes.

. . . then you are—what you really are—is an experience awaiting
everyone who comes into contact with you . . .

Ah.

. . . and the same with everyone else for you. And if you get stuck with
the appearance, you’ll miss the experience. And you’re still isolated
and alone, and seeing a world and universe, instead of the Kingdom of
Heaven and your Brother or Sister—the Christ. So, yes, we’re talking
about having an experience.

And that’s what I should look for because I’m . . .

That’s what you should have curiosity to see.

Got it. Yeah.

It’s to look for . . . mmm . . . “I’m going to look for it! I’m going to
look for it!” No. It’s like: “Wow! Is there more for me to see? I wanna
see it! Wow!” Let there be curiosity. Let it be light. Let it be
interested. Just be interested.

Right. Instead of trying to make myself do a different thing. Once more
using my head.

Yes.

Yeah.

Yes. Okay.

Thank you.

You are welcome. I haven’t forgotten your second question. [audience
laughter]

We were talking about the news media earlier as Susan brought up. And in
my experience, in my teaching and practice, I notice that a lot of
people have been spun out by this situation. And no wonder. If you turn
on the TV or the radio, or pick up a newspaper, it is 90% of everything
that being talked about in those media. Now, my question to you is:
What’s the best way to interact with the media, because depending on who
you’re listening to, you’re getting a very slanted . . .  usually a
slanted viewpoint. Very little objectivity from what I can tell, either
one way or the other. So, do we just turn everything off?  Just don’t
watch TV. Don’t listen to the radio. Don’t pick up a newspaper. Or do
you immerse yourself? Where’s the . . . is there a golden mean here? Or
is it always just turning to the Father and asking, “Father, which
station to watch?” And you know, et cetera. I mean how does that . . .
what’s the best way to handle that situation?

If ignorance is what you’re all suffering from, then don’t do what
promotes further ignorance by isolating yourself from the media and from
anything that brings you news of the world. Dare to be informed, but
just don’t become fixated on the delivery of the information. And, in
this day and age, because there is the availability, I encourage you to
gather your information from a broad range of sources that clearly show
the difference, the different lenses, the different perspectives. But
remember that you’re not going to be able to gather the Facts, the
capital “F “ Facts of capital “B” Being from the media at all. What
you’re going to see are the current beliefs, the current perspectives,
even though they are reporting on . . . even though the event they are
reporting is a Movement of Liberation that is divinely authorized, they
are going to be reporting it through the lens of their beliefs.

 Now, gather your information so that you have a general and broad
 picture of what the beliefs are. And then, turn off the media and go
 within to ask the Father: What needs to be known here? What do you need
 to see? What is your part to play? What is the clarity that you need to
 be embodying? And how do you become free of your own bias? Because you
 want to be the clearest channel of the Truth that you can be.

Did we get to the second sentence? [audience laughter]

No.

Nothing . . .

Do you want me to start it? You want me to start over?

I will read it.

Okay.

Nothing can prevail against a Son of God who commends his spirit into
the Hands of his Father. By doing this the mind awakens from its sleep
and remembers its Creator. 

This is the Truth, no matter what doubts your egos and your conditioned
thinking throws in the way. It is the Truth, and I encourage you during
the next two weeks (since we are not meeting next Thursday) to commend
your Soul, your Spirit, to the Father. And don’t imagine that you have
to dive off into the deep end of the experience, the deep end of the
pool. It’s all right for you to get into the kiddies’ wading pool and
splash in what the experience feels like of commending your Spirit unto
the Father. But begin to actually inquire, “What do I need to know
here?” Do it. Do it. Do it.

You know what? I look forward to the day that I no longer hear students
of the Course talking about what the words mean, and I start hearing
them talk about the transformation they’re experiencing because they’ve
done it, done it, done it! They’ve risked the chance and commended their
Spirit unto the Father and let the Father’s Will find expression through
them, because they were so undefended against it that it infilled them
and overflowed them and blessed their Brothers. That’s what we need to
start having embodied in the world about the Course. Not which version
is the right version. Ugh! Because no matter what version you pick up,
it’s going to point you in the direction of commending your Spirit into
the hands of your Father, so that by doing this the mind awakens from
its sleep and remembers its Creator. And this is the good news. This is
your Liberator! And your Liberator will bring Joy to your face and your
body and your world. So let’s remember what it’s all about. Or maybe
even if you’ve been a student of the Course for twenty years, maybe
you’re just discovering tonight, from hearing what I’m saying, that this
is what it’s all about, so that you have an opportunity to live it in a
brand-new and truly transformational way.

So, we may have only gone through three sentences [audience laughter],
but it has been a very fruitful and wonderful evening. Thank you.

Thank you.



A Course In Miracles (reference pages)

Chapter 3 – RETRAINING THE MIND – Section: ATONEMENT WITHOUT SACRIFICE
(Raj did not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July 2003,
therefore, there can be a lot of difference in the readings.) Sparkly
Book – p.49, 1st Par.   /   JCIM – p.20, 7th Full Par.  /   CIMS – p.42,
Par. 19 Chapter 3 – THE INNOCENT PERCEPTION – Section:  MIRACLES AS TRUE
PERCEPTION 2First Edition  –  p. 35   /    Second Edition – p 39, Par. 5
1 Students – commenting or asking a question.
