---
title: May 1, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Good Evening. So we’re on the chapter entitled, “Perception Versus
Knowledge.” And the way the word “perception” is used in the Course, it
really means “misperception.” Perception is the way you see something
when you’re looking at it without God, whether what you’re looking at is
being defined by you as good or bad.

And as I said last week, Knowledge is the direct perception, you might
say, of Truth, the direct Experience of Truth. You, each one of you are
the salvation of the world. Ye shall know the Truth and the Truth shall
make you free. That doesn’t mean that you will have an idea about the
Truth, but you shall experience directly the Truth about anything you’re
experiencing. When you’re engaged in your function of being the
salvation of the world, you are glorifying God. And you could say that
in glorifying God, you are calling God forth in whatever it is you’re
experiencing, instead of muddling along in your mutually-agreed-upon
definitions of what that thing is.

You’re here to undo the dream. It is not your function to glide along in
the middle of the dream untouched by the dream. You’re here to undo the
dream. Which means that if you see a friend, or a co-worker, or anyone,
who appears not be well, you don’t say, “Poor dear, she needs to be home
in bed.” Instead, it’s your job to correct that perception you’re
having. And at the least to realize that’s not her Birthright. That is
not innately natural to her. That is an illegitimate imposition upon her
of an illusion which it’s not her Birthright to be experiencing at all.

Of course, now that will be drawing from your memory, but it’s an
excellent first step to redirect the tendency, you might say, the
natural tendency to respond, “Oh, poor dear, she needs to be home in
bed.” Which does nothing to correct the dream. And it also does nothing
to direct your thought and your mind in toward the desire to know of
God: “What is the Truth here? What is the Truth about this Divine One
who couldn’t possibly for an instant have ceased to be the Divine One
that God Is Being right there?”

That’s how you turn toward the Altar, but in order to turn toward the
Altar you have to realize when you’re not turned toward it, when you are
turned away. And all of your habits of thinking about others have arisen
out of having your back to the Altar. You’re here to bless each other
all day long every day by desiring to glorify God right there in each
other, no matter how cranky or ill or unpleasant another is behaving.
You want to break the habit of thoughtlessly moving down a well-worn
path of ignorance and confirming it further, making the rut deeper.

So you’re not here to be in passive bliss while illusion goes on
unchanged and unchallenged. You’re here to be an agent for change. Why?
Because God gave you that special task? No. But because it is your
Function to be glorifying God in everything you see. And it just so
happens that glorifying God in everything you see, blesses and heals and
puts the weight on the right side, the side of Truth. And reminds you to
listen more deeply and to desire when you look at this other one to see
the fullness of God right there because you don’t want to labor under an
illusion. And you don’t want them to labor under an illusion.

You are the Light of the World, if the Light is what you want to see and
if the Light is what you insist upon letting in right where darkness and
obscureness seems to prevail. Another reason you do it is because it’s
the way for you to wake up. It’s the way you undo your decision to see
things by yourself, on your own, in your own inimitable unique way.

The one, “poor dear who needs to be home in bed,” can’t possibly be the
Glory of God. The perception you have of them cannot be a recognition of
the Glory of God. And you know what? The picture you project upon her is
the one that governs you. And the Truth that you let in blesses her and
blesses you as well. Whatever you think you know about someone else is
what you think you know about yourself. And whatever you truly Know in
the sense that the Course is speaking of Knowledge, whatever direct
Experience of Truth you have is unavoidably the direct Experience of the
Truth about you.

Now you can’t have a direct Experience of the Truth about you all by
yourself, because that’s still private. You, if you want to know the
Truth about yourself, need to seek the Truth about your Brother. It’s a
fact that what you need, you need to give. And so, of course, we’re
coming back to this word “involvement.” Involvement meaning not being
private, not being isolated. And you know what? If it’s your desire to
see the fullness of God in your Brother or your pet or your plant or
your home, and you don’t see immediate transformation, you don’t see
immediate evidence of healing so that the fullness of God is what is
being given back to you, you persist. And you don’t worry about their
willingness or unwillingness. You persist because they need someone to
see for them the Truth in them, because they can’t do it alone. You
persist. You persist. You persist. And you don’t fret about delays and
you don’t wonder if you’re not doing it well enough. You persist until
whatever resistance you have is melted and the direct Experience of
Truth can flood you, and for lack of better words, convince you so that
you utterly Know the Truth.

Let’s talk about something else. The moment you decided to look at
things all by yourself, “but, Father, I’d rather see it my way,” and you
imagined that you could do it and you imagined that you did do it, it
left you with an impression that you had a mind of your own. And you
believe it. And as a result, when you look at your Brother and Sister,
and they, “poor dears, look like they need to be home in bed,” you make
the natural assumption that they have a mind of their own. And then you
can metaphysically mess yourself up by saying: “Well, they have a mind
of their own and they brought it on themselves. And what can I do to
overcome the mind of their own that they’re insisting on embodying?” And
that’s a trap, because you don’t have a mind of your own, except in your
imagination, and that doesn’t mean that you have a mind of your own.

When it dawns on you that you don’t have a mind of your own and they
don’t, even intellectually as a thought and not a knowing, when it dawns
on you that you don’t have a mind of your own and they don’t have a mind
of their own, then you know that there’s nothing to overcome. And there
is no one there with a right to see things the way they want to see
them. That’s part of the illusion, too.

And so, as part of being the salvation of the world as far as being an
agent for change is concerned, as far as being that Presence which
corrects illusion, you must not only recognize that they are suffering
from an illegitimate imposition, you must recognize that they don’t
actually have a mind to make-up their illusion and embody it, that they
themselves still exist, just as you do right now, in your pristine state
of God Presencing Himself/Herself right where you are, in which there’s
no mind to have its illusions or its perceptions.

You need to exonerate your Brother and Sister, not only from the belief
that they’re suffering from, but the suggestion that they are capable of
believing, of having a perception actually of something God didn’t make,
or of having a perception on their own. Ridiculous words. You can’t have
a perception on your own because no such “you” exists. So in glorifying
God, you are exonerating the so-called one capable of being willful and
having private disturbed perceptions of Reality. You exonerate them from
this in the realization that they don’t even have such a mind that’s
going to take ages to change. They don’t have a mind that you have to
convince. They don’t have a mind that you have to struggle with, because
if there’s anything right there where they are, all there is, is God
Presencing Himself or Herself.

Now I am giving you ideas that prime you for being less resistance to
the influx of the Experience of Knowing the Truth. But realize you have
the capacity to provide direction to your thoughts and provide that
direction so that, as I said, you don’t just flow with the illusion and
thus fail to fulfill your function of correcting the illusion. Why? So
that there is no further apparent evidence of anything but the Presence
of God there. This Course is not about learning how not to be bothered
by the illusion while being in it. It is about correction.

Does that mean you have authority and some new level of control? No.
What it means is that you have a capacity to reflect nothing other than
God, to be the Presence of nothing other than the Father’s Point of View
and thereby magnify what God Is Being. Another way of saying glorifying
God right there where you thought you saw an illusion and you thought
you saw somebody else seeing an illusion about themselves. And which, if
you weren’t careful, you would give them the right to do because you
thought they had a mind of their own just like you.

Let that mind be in you. “Let that mind be in you that was also in
Christ Jesus,” it was said. That’s what it’s about is letting the only
Mind there is, the Presence of Mind that is God being Conscious of His
Infinite Creation. Let that be in you because that is all there is of
you and to you. You see? That’s coming back Home.

That is not an exercise of personal authority. And it is not an exercise
of the power of thought. It’s the spontaneous and natural evidence of
abandoning authority you think you have and the private position you
think you have. That constitutes a lowered defense, a softened shell, a
weakened privacy so that the Presence of God that is what is right there
where each of you sits can be your Conscious Experience of Being putting
you in a state of Knowing the Truth.

You don’t know the Truth to make something happen. When you Know the
Truth, when you’re having a direct Experience of Truth, you no longer
see anything to have something done to. And that’s what makes you free,
not that you have known the Truth so well that it changed something
wrong into something right. The direct Experience of Truth is the
Reality of a thing revealed to you because you weren’t blocking the
experience of it with a dearly loved concept or perception or
definition.

Raj, could I ask a question please? 1

No. Let us begin. Remember it.

The Bible tells you to know yourself, or to be certain.2

Uh huh. Now, some people try to be certain. Some people practice
certainty. They sort of screw up enough courage and guts to be definite.
You see? And they call that being certain. Do you understand?

I’m working on it.

Someone says, “Such-and-such-a-thing is true.”  And you say to them,
“Are you certain?”  And they say, “I’m pretty certain.”  “Now just a
moment.”  “Yes! I’m certain!”

That is an adopted certainty. That’s a certainty that arises out of a
faith one has in his own perceptions.

Right. Okay, then I understand.

Yes, but to Know yourself is to be in the unobstructed direct Experience
of Truth in which there is nothing but It, nothing but Truth. And that
is certainty because there is nothing else to defer to or to be
distracted by.

Continue. . . .

Certainty is always of God.  

Yes. The certainty of you is God Presencing Himself/Herself right where
you are. Everything else is un-certainty. Any other sense of yourself
that you entertain separate and apart from God’s Being of You, is really
uncertainty, even if you feel you have a great deal of confidence in
yourself. It’s not certainty.

Continue . . .

When you love someone you have perceived him as he is, and this makes it
possible for you to know him. Until you first perceive him as he is you
cannot know him. While you ask questions about him you are clearly
implying that you do not know God.  

You’re clearly implying that you do not know God. And what that means is
that you don’t have the expectation when you’re looking at your Brother
or your Sister of seeing the Presence of God. It is not your spontaneous
intent to see the Wholeness of God and the Glory of God right there.

Continue . . .

Certainty does not require action. When you say you are acting on the
basis of knowledge, you are really confusing knowledge with perception.
Knowledge provides the strength for creative thinking, but not for right
doing. 
 
Hmmm. This is because Knowledge shows God’s Work as already done.

Continue . . .

Perception, miracles and doing are closely related. Knowledge is the
result of revelation and induces only thought. Even in its most
spiritualized form perception involves the body. Knowledge comes from
the altar within and is timeless because it is certain. To perceive the
truth is not the same as to know it.  

Exactly. Perception is variable. One moment you can perceive Truth, and
the next moment you can perceive error. But when you Know the Truth as a
direct Experience of Truth, there is no variableness to it. It is
certain.

Okay.

[apparently someone wanted to ask a question]

I’m going to hold comments down because of the time and so that we can
cover as much as possible.

Right perception is necessary before God can communicate directly to His
altars, . .   

SEEKER (reader): To His Altars?

To His Altars.

Hmmm. I didn’t quite understand multiple Altars is why I was wondering
about that.

. . . which He established in His Sons.  

Plural.

Okay.

There He can communicate His certainty, and His knowledge will bring
peace without question.  

Now why is right perception necessary? Because right perception is the
ability to distinguish between Truth and illusion, to recognize where an
illusion is operating, to recognize where an illegitimate imposition
seems to be holding a Sister or a Brother in bondage. Because without
being able to discern the difference between right and wrong, you cannot
make the choice for right. And in making the choice for right, turning
toward the Altar, if you cannot tell the difference, you will not know
that there is a call for correction. You see?

God is not a stranger to His Sons, and His Sons are not strangers to
each other. Knowledge preceded both perception and time, and will
ultimately replace them.  

It is you coming back into your Right Mind which, because it Knows the
Truth, experiences nothing unlike it to distract you from it.

Continue . . .

That is the real meaning of “Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the
end,” and “Before Abraham was I am.” Perception can and must be
stabilized, but knowledge is stable.  

Yes. And so, at this point, what you’re all engaged in is a process of
stabilizing perception, learning to recognize when something is going on
that is illegitimate, meaning not God-ordained. And in being able to
recognize that, not vacillating from positive to negative to willing
cooperation with an illusion to taking steps to correct it. You are
learning to not be fooled, not to be sucked in on a daily basis from
hour to hour. Where never again, when you see someone who doesn’t look
well, do you say, “Poor dear, she really needs to be home in bed.” You
find yourself catching that thought and correcting that thought by at
least acknowledging: “This is not her Birthright, and it’s illegitimate,
and she doesn’t even really have a mind of her own with which to create
that illusion and bind herself with. All that is there is the Presence
of God Presencing Himself/Herself.”

That kind of a statement, even though it’s drawn from memory because you
heard me say it or you’ve realized it in the past, that kind of thought
is discernment and constitutes a mental discipline that allows you then
to say, “Father, I would Know the Truth about her. Father, show me Your
Fullness in her.” And then you listen. That’s turning toward the Altar.

Continue . . .

“Fear God and keep His commandments” becomes “Know God and accept His
certainty.”  

Yes. To know God, you have to have your attention turned toward God.
What God is has to be more important than what you think you are and
what you think your Brothers are, and what you think your obligations to
your Brothers are, as well as to the mutually-agreed-upon definitions
that the two of you, or more, have made commitment to. And the minute
you are willing to abandon those, the minute you are willing not to give
the value to them that you have in the past, you can shift your
attention to God so that you might be filled with the direct Experience
of Truth. In other words, an Experience of Knowing that constitutes
Knowledge. But again, as I said last week, not knowledge as a bit of
information to be stored away in memory to be used again in the future.
It is a Living Knowledge that can only be gathered in the moment of the
Conscious Experience of what Truth is. And it’s therefore always new.

The Experience of God is always new.

Okay . . .

If you attack error in another, you will hurt yourself. You cannot know
your brother when you attack him. Attack is always made upon a stranger.  

Why? Because you trust a Brother. You know a Brother. You feel your
kinship. Attack is always made upon an estranger, someone you are
estranged from. And yet it’s your Brother whom you have estranged
yourself from. And it is this lapse of memory that he is your Brother
and who seems to be left when you have forgotten who he is that you
attack.

Continue . . .

You are making him a stranger by misperceiving him, and so you cannot
know him. It is because you have made him a stranger that you are afraid
of him.  

And the best way to make a Brother out of a stranger is to remember your
Father and look for your Father in him. Because if you can find your
Father in him, then you have found your Brother and you cannot be
estranged. And then the messengers that you send out to him will return
to you confirming his Brotherhood and God has been glorified. And
correction has occurred. Healing has occurred.

Continue . . .

Perceive him correctly so that you can know him.  

Yes. And I’ve restated it a number of times. When you look at your
Brother or Sister and say, “This is not the Truth about them. This is an
illegitimate imposition upon them. It is not his or her Birthright. And
not only that, he or she doesn’t even actually have a mind that can
create this imposition and bind her.” That is all at the level of
perception. It is still at the level of perception, but it is a truer
perception that sets a tone in your mind that allows you then to ask God
to reveal to you the Truth so that you can Know him or her.

Continue . . .

There are no strangers in God’s creation. To create as He created you
can create only what you know, and therefore accept as yours.  

Ahhh. And the only way you can create only what you Know is when you
have asked God for the direct Experience of Truth, which for, lack of
better words, you could call God’s Truth. And then you find yourself
creating the Conscious Experience of What God Is Being there, which
isn’t an actual creation at all of your own, but is the direct
Experience of God Being All There Is right there. And healing has
occurred. Correction has occurred. And there doesn’t seem, any longer,
to even be the suggestion of something unlike God.

And the one who, you know, “the poor dear who ought to be home in bed”
is obviously in exactly the place she needs to be to carry on the joyous
activity that she came there for with happiness and health and
perfection because correction has occurred. Again, it hasn’t been a
process by which you come into your peace while she’s still miserable.
That’s not correction. That’s not the evidence of Knowing.

Continue . . .

God knows His children with perfect certainty. He created them by
knowing them. He recognizes them perfectly. When they do not recognize
each other, they do not recognize Him.  

And He recognizes them perfectly because He recognizes Himself in them.
And you will recognize them perfectly when you see nothing else but Him
in them. And when you see Him in them, you will Know Him in you.

We will end there. I want to point out something to you. When you are
willing to turn to the Altar to learn of God what the Truth is so that
you can give voice to God’s Truth, and you do it for your Brother which
is the only legitimate reason for doing it, it is an Act of Love. And
that’s the real event. Not the communication, but the extension and the
receipt of the Act of Love.

You have watched Paul this evening make that choice under circumstances
that he felt were disturbing. And he was willing to persist in
abandoning any value that he gave to being upset. And he did it for you.
He preferred to see the Glory of God right here, over an experience of
self-righteous indignation. And I know all of you are grateful and I
know all of you are blessed. I would have you learn from this, more than
anything we’ve talked about tonight.

Because your Brother, your Sister, is worth more as an object of your
affection than any ego reaction that might entice you to stay in a state
of misery in which no correction can occur, in which no healing can
occur, in which no relief can occur for you. And so it might not always
be easy to get past the desire to relish in the discomfort, the
wonderful discomfort of self-righteous indignation. But do it. Doing it
is the leaven that leavens the whole lump, the little bit that affects
all. When he does that I can say, “I love you all.” But he would not
have been able to give voice to that Truth if he had insisted upon
relishing his delicious discomfort. You see?

Our next Thursday evening Gathering will be a week from Sunday at 2
o’clock. We are going to change the day and the time in order to make it
easier for more people who would like to attend to participate. I look
forward to seeing you then.

And in the meantime realize that there are no private thoughts. And when
you see something that you know doesn’t embody and reflect the Glory of
God, challenge it in your mind, even if you are simply saying: “That is
not the Truth about her. That is a lie about him. I do not join in it.”
And then say, “Father, I would like to experience the Wholeness of You
right there where I seem to be seeing something that I know is
illegitimate.” Even though the word “know” there is not yet a direct
Experience of the Truth and be the little bit of leaven that leavens the
whole lump.

A little bit of leaven blesses everyone, blesses the Whole. But you know
what more than anything?  You’re gonna find yourselves not as dragged
down and depressed as you are by the constant rehearsal of: “Wow, she
doesn’t look so hot today. Boy, he’s really a grouch today. Boy, I could
have done without running into her.” You depress yourselves by careless
[laughing] . . . careless thoughts. Careless thoughts. And because there
are no private thoughts, your careless thoughts can seem to reinforce
the dream.

Be the leaven. Be the leaven this next week and a half.

Chapter 3 – RETRAINING THE MIND – Section: PERCEPTION VERSUS KNOWLEDGE
(Raj did not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July 2003,
therefore, there can be a lot of difference in the readings.) Sparkly
Book – p.52, 4th Full Par.   /   JCIM – p.22, 4th Full Par.  /   CIMS –
p.45, Par. 35 Chapter 3 – THE INNOCENT PERCEPTION – Section:  PERCEPTION
VERSUS KNOWLEDGE 2 First Edition  –  p. 36   /    Second Edition – p 40,
Par. 5 1 Students – commenting or asking a question.
