---
title: May 11, 2003
ref: Needs formatting
complete: false
---

Okay. Good afternoon.  With apologies to everyone on the internet, the
stream went down. And so I hope that everyone will not mind the foibles
of high technology. For those who might not have heard me say it because
of the breakdown of the streaming, today those who are on the internet
who have a question about what’s being discussed from the Course can
post the question and Chris will relay it to me. And in the first
edition it’s on page 37 [second edition page 41]. Okay.

Without any preamble, we will leap right into the Text. And we’ll start
right here.

ERROR AND THE EGO 1

The abilities you now possess are only shadows of your real strength.
All of your present functions are divided and open to question and
doubt. This is because you are not certain how you will use them, and
are therefore incapable of knowledge. You are also incapable of
knowledge because you can still perceive lovelessly. 

And let’s remember that the word “Knowledge” refers to what I have
described as Knowing with a capital “K”—the direct Experience of Truth.
Not the direct idea of Truth, but the direct Experience of Truth which
is to be experiencing the Father’s point of view; letting that Mind be
in you which is the Father’s Mind and claiming no right to a mind of
your own.

Continue . . .

Perception did not exist until the separation introduced degrees,
aspects and intervals. Spirit has no levels, and all conflict arises
from the concept of levels. Only the Levels of the Trinity are capable
of Unity. The levels created by the separation cannot but conflict. This
is because they are meaningless to each other. 

You see the minute you decided to try to have a point of view of your
own, to see things your way and you turned your back on the Father,
turned your back to the Altar and took what you thought would be an
independent stance, it caused you to introduce into your experience a
perspective unlike the Father’s.

This perspective, was, nevertheless, a perspective on Reality, because
you didn’t have anything but Reality to experience. When you introduced
therefore a biased perception, a twisted or altered perception of
Reality, you created an illusory . . . a distorted experience of it.
Now, if you look at your distorted experience and believe it, you are in
error. And everything you are seeing is erroneous.

Literally, waking up is coming back into your Right Mind where you’re
not claiming a private perspective of your own, and where you stop
introducing this bias or twist on Reality. The illusions that you choose
to believe, because they are not real, are meaningless because only what
is Real is Meaning-full—with a capital “M.”

Let’s continue . . .

Consciousness, the level of perception, was the first split introduced
into the mind after the separation, making the mind a perceiver rather
than a creator. 

Now I’m going to interrupt here. Mind, with a capital “M,” is conscious.
Consciousness is not an illusion. And this is important to understand.
What this is referring to is the personal private mind each of you
thinks you have when you’ve turned your back on the Altar. The level of
perception is what consciousness is when you have dissociated yourself
from the Father. We could describe it as human consciousness versus
Divine Consciousness. Here it’s referring to the human consciousness. It
says, “Consciousness, the level of perception, was the first split
introduced into the mind after the separation, making the mind a
perceiver rather than a creator.”

Continue . . .

Is it possible to be conscious at two levels at the same time
simultaneously? 2

No, it is not. Because either your back is toward the Altar or your back
is away—you have turned toward the Altar. They are exclusive. That
doesn’t mean that you can’t have moments of clarity, moments of
revelation, and then seem to turn back once again to your habitual way
of perceiving and reacting to what you perceive.

So it is a matter of where you focus your attention.

That is correct.

Consciousness is correctly identified as the domain of the ego. The ego
is a wrong-minded attempt to perceive yourself as you wish to be, rather
than as you are. Yet you can know yourself only as you are, because that
is all you can be sure of.  

And here the word “know” might be better understood if it had a capital
“K.” Yet you can Know yourself only as you are because that is all you
can be sure of.

Continue . . .

Everything else is open to question. 

And that’s what’s important! Until you’re awake, you need to look at
even these beautiful lilacs and be open to question. What is the true
Meaning? What is really going on there that is so beautiful to the eye
and so delicious to the nose. You need to let everything be open to
question so that your mutually-agreed-upon definitions don’t get in the
way of discovering the more of what is really there than what you’re
currently seeing.

I wish to see the Wholeness of God right there where the lilacs are.
That’s how you keep it open to question. You keep . . . what you do is,
you question your mutually-agreed-upon definitions by reaching beyond
them. You cast doubt upon what you’re so sure of with the desire to have
Truth replace your perception. Okay . . .

The ego is the questioning aspect of the post-separation self, which was
made rather than created. 

And you could say “made-up.” Fantasy, imagination.

Continue . . .

It is capable of asking questions but not of perceiving meaningful
answers, because these would involve knowledge and cannot be perceived.  

Indeed. And, in fact, if all of you were honest with yourselves, even in
your prayers, your asking of the question, your making the request,
becomes more important than the answer. And you state, restate, and
justify, and explain, your question endlessly, rather than saying, “I
would like to know the Truth about this Father,” and shutting up and
listening until you get the answer.

Continue . . .

The mind is therefore confused, because only One-mindedness can be
without confusion. A separated or divided mind must be confused. 

Now this could sound like an indictment on your very state of existence,
but it is important to accept this as the Truth. A separated or divided
mind must be confused. And since you are not awake, you must accept the
fact that you are experiencing confusion. If you do not arrive at a
point where you’re able to consider that the truth, you will not
recognize that there is a call for correction. And so this isn’t an
indictment on you. It’s the provision of a bit of information which is
essential to your acknowledging that something is missing from your
experience. And that that lack needs to be fulfilled; it needs to be
corrected. And until you recognize that, you won’t call anything into
question. You will constantly confirm and reconfirm and reconfirm your
current definitions. And you will do your best to live your life under
the terms of those definitions.

So, to recognize intellectually that everything you are experiencing is
really an inadequate experience of Reality and that there is more to
Reality than you are experiencing, and then becoming inquisitive to see
the more that’s there, to experience God in the lilacs, to experience
the meaning of Love and Beauty and Truth that God is embodying and it
looks like lilacs. That is what will open you up to a certain
receptivity that can be filled, infilled by God, helping bring you back
into your Right Mind.

So, a separated or divided mind must be confused. And because you are
not awake you are confused, but not lost. And you could say you have
been lost as long as you didn’t know you were confused, because if you
didn’t know you were confused, you didn’t know there was a call for
correction. And you thought it’s just the way everything was, and
therefore you were stuck.

So this is good news—essential news. And it ties in with what we’ve
discussed about the necessity to be able to discern between Truth and
error, Truth and illusion. You see? You have to be able to discern the
difference, make the distinction, because without the ability to make
the distinction, you’re stuck in whatever your current
mutually-agreed-upon definitions are.

Okay. Continue . . .

May I ask a question?

You may.

So, the discernment . . . first the question, “What’s the lilac?” And
then that discernment is that going along with what you used to say is
acknowledging what’s Real, and that’s right there with the Atonement . .
.

Absolutely.

. . . and then that’s the first steps of moving into creativity, out of
perception.

Indeed.

The doorway.

That is correct. It’s also been called the “little willingness.”

It’s a batch file. You do the one thing and it all executes.

Indeed.  Yes.  Okay. Go ahead Michael.

I caught you saying that you must learn the discernment between Truth
and illusion.

Yes.

And this is learned by constantly turning back to the Altar and asking
the Father?

Absolutely.

And that’s how the discernment . . . that’s really to me, that’s not
indicative of me becoming able to discern. It’s constantly giving my
will over to the Father. So, by continuing this practice on and on, you
come to the point where you’re able to discern.

You come to a point where you could say you find yourself Knowing with
the Father.

So it’s like a joining.

It is.

Eventually you begin joining with the Father so that it begins
permeating the veil, so to speak.

Exactly. And then, then the act of an independent one joining with the
Father begins to fade and yield to the Father being all there is of you,
and it’s no longer a you joining with the Father, or a you being
creative, or a you having achieved true creativity because that still
suggests a separation.

It’s more like a dissolving into.

Than is correct, although that does not constitute a loss of the
experience of Individuality, and we will not go into that at this time.
But there is Conscious Individuality that is not any way separate from
God.

Okay.  Yes.

CHRIS: Douglas from Australia asks, we’ve been discussing sickness and
the body in the TGP Forum and he wonders, could you help him deal with
the discomfort in his mind he feels between knowing (or trying to know)
sickness is not real and as a paramedic having to deal daily with the
seeming reality of both sickness and the body?

Ah. Yes. Well, your job, Douglas, is like mine. I am constantly, even at
this moment, dealing with people who are experiencing sickness of the
body or the mind, or suffering from mistakes or accidents, and so on.
But the point is not that your confrontation with these dynamics makes
them real, but that they provide you with the ongoing opportunity to cut
through the presentation, the appearance, by virtue of your willingness
to go within and to ask for the Father’s point of view, “What is the
divine Truth of this individual right now?” And you know what? You may
find that as a paramedic, you will never end up with anyone needing to
actually be delivered to a hospital because they will have been healed
on the way.

Do not see these things as challenges, but rather ongoing opportunities
for you to relinquish your definition and the generally-accepted
definitions of such circumstances, so that you might be the agent for
change that heals, where transformation, regeneration and redemption
occur on the spot. In the meantime if transformation, regeneration and
redemption do not occur instantaneously, you value and appreciate your
having the opportunity to take every step possible, let us say, through
physical means to allow for regeneration and healing to occur, whether
that requires surgery, the setting of bones, or whatever. The point is
do not fret yourself over the presentation that seems to say that
Reality must be other-worldly and doesn’t apply here.

I know that in spite of the confusion all of you are experiencing, it
isn’t true. It isn’t real. It isn’t a challenge to me. It’s simply the
ongoing opportunity to reflect back to you the Truth, because I have
gone to the Father to ask of the Truth about you. And if you seem not to
get it right away, I do not ask myself how I’m failing because you
didn’t see it instantaneously. And I hang in there with you as you
adjust to the best of your ability and as quickly as you’re able to
allow yourself to let go of self-control and yield to the authority and
omnipotence of the Father so you can let the Father be all there is of
you. And you are not holding on to a right to a private perception of
yourself and thus blinding yourself to your awakening, to your already
existing and living perfection. Okay . . .

A separated or divided mind must be confused. It is necessarily
uncertain about what it is. 

Because it isn’t anything at all. It’s an imagination. It can’t be
certain of what it is because there ain’t no such critter!

It has to be in conflict because it is out of accord with itself. This
makes its aspects strangers to each other, and this is the essence of
the fear-prone condition, in which attack is always possible. You have
every reason to feel afraid as you perceive yourself. 

Why? Because you’re so horrible? No. Because you’re not looking with the
Father. You’re looking at everything from a state of isolation. What is
fearful is the dissonance you feel because of this totally unnatural
adopted perspective that you are choosing to believe is true. And in
feeling disconnected from the Father, from your essential capital “I”
Integrity, you cannot help but feel uneasy. I’ve talked before about the
fact that this uneasiness is your immovable, unchangeable Sanity letting
you know you’re off the beam. Why? Not so that you can feel guilty for
it, but so that you can get back on the beam.

As you perceive yourself, or as you perceive anything by yourself, you
cannot help but be experiencing it in a state of fear, because looking
at it by yourself is not only unnatural, it’s actually impossible. And
the attempt to do the impossible has a feeling to it, and uncomfortable
feeling. It tells you that you are doing something utterly unnatural
that you cannot actually succeed at.

Continue . . .

This is why you cannot escape from fear until you realize that you did
not and could not create yourself. 

There you go. And therefore this you that is feeling afraid, or this you
that seems to be bound by its definition, doesn’t even exist. Now that’s
the bottom line of your healing, whatever the healing is that’s needed.
Because if you can’t do it and it hasn’t been done, then you are not
bound.

And whatever you felt bound by can and must vanish without any process
to it, without refining your soul and living a few more lifetimes
inching your way up the spiritual ladder. There ain’t no such you to go
anywhere. That’s the bottom line.

Continue . . .

You can never make your misperceptions true, and your creation is beyond
your own error. That is why you must eventually choose to heal the
separation.  

Indeed. And it’s really, if you think about what’s being said and what
we’ve been talking about, it’s really very basic and very simple. When
you’re uncomfortable, you’re on the wrong track. And it means, get back
on the right track. It means you’re trying to do something that’s
impossible. Stop wasting your time. That’s all it means. And so, when
you find yourself suffering, whether it’s mild or whether it’s severe,
it simply means turn back toward the Altar. Inquire of God to know what
the Truth is, rather than valuing and validating your own definitions,
and the definitions that you have agreed to with everyone else.

Isn’t it obvious that if this which is experiencing misperceptions,
having its own private perspective, were real, were valid, it wouldn’t
have to gather around itself a bunch of others to get mutual agreement
in order to secure the truth of what he’s believing because there are
numbers of others who agree.

The awakened Sonship does not indulge in mutual agreements with each
other. You might say that the Sonship mutually agrees with the Father
and yields to the Father. But as I’ve said, once yielding to the Father
occurs, there’s no longer any sense of separate identity, of one in
agreement with God. And Unity, Oneness, is the Truth known that has no
opposite, and therefore nothing experienced needing correction. And that
can come in glimpses. And when it does, you have instantaneous healing.
And Douglas, you can look forward to having the experience of
instantaneous healing occur as you’re driving that person to a hospital
for care.

Continue . . .

Right-mindedness is not to be confused with the knowing mind, because it
is applicable only to right perception. You can be right-minded or
wrong-minded, and even this is subject to degrees, clearly demonstrating
that knowledge is not involved. 

Or you could say, Clearly demonstrating that Knowing with a capital “K”
is not involved. I am not correcting what is here; I’m implementing an
understanding of the meaning.

Continue . . .

The term “right-mindedness” is properly used as the correction for
“wrong-mindedness,” and applies to the state of mind that induces
accurate perception. 

Yes. You see right-mindedness is a stepping-stone to the direct
Experience of Truth, but you have to be able to make the distinction
between right-mindedness and wrong-mindedness. And that’s why I
encouraged you last week that when you see someone during your day who
appears not to be well, don’t just let it pass by and say, “Oh, poor
dear, she needs to be home in bed.” Or “Boy, I’m glad I’m not in her
shoes today.” Or whatever. Correct it! Recognize immediately that this
is illegitimate. It’s not the Truth. That’s right-mindedness.

And then, ask to know what the Truth is. This doesn’t mean that you have
to stop in the middle of your activities and take a half hour to listen
and wait for the answer and interrupt the flow of your day. But it
means, don’t let these little moments, these little opportunities to
recognize the call for correction, don’t miss those opportunities. And
take advantage of them, because, as I’ve said, every time you do that
and express that right-mindedness, it’s the little bit of leaven that
leavens the whole. And then as you proceed on with your activities, you
can still be listening. Because, ultimately, what you want is not just
right-mindedness.

The acknowledgement, “Well, that’s illegitimate about her. I don’t join
in the idea that I’m being invited to join with. That’s not the Truth
about her.” And then go on to do your things and say, “Father, I would
like to experience the Truth about her.” You see? 

Yes.

Raj, is it appropriate also to ask for blessing for that one in travail?

You may, of course.

Well, the reason I’m asking is I encounter, from time to time, accidents
along the freeway. And I encountered one the other day that was pretty
severe. In other words, the person was on the ground. And as I was
approaching it, my thought was to ask for a blessing for whatever was
transpiring then.

Certainly. Yes. But I want you all to do more than that. I want you to
invite the direct experience—experience within yourself—of what the
Truth about that one is. I want you bringing everything that we’re
talking about and reading about here into the level of experience, and
not just a surface acknowledgment of an idea of Truth.

You can say, “Father, please help them.” But then say, “Father, please
help me to have a direct Experience of the Truth about them.” You see?

Does that mean that you would experience the pain and suffering also
that they’re going through? I mean you’re asking . . .

That’s not the Truth.

Okay. That’s not the Truth. Then what you’re asking for is to experience
their wholeness along with your own.

Yes. You are asking for an Experience of Truth, with a capital “T.” Not
the truth of the human condition.

That’s what I want to be clear about that.

The human condition is an illusion.

Right.

The accident, the injury, the suffering that appears to be going on
there is an illusion. It’s an illegitimate imposition on that Christ,
that Divine One. And you want to know what the Truth is about that
Divine One.

When you ask to know the Truth, you’re never asking to know the truth
about the human condition. “Well, what is the condition of my liver?
What’s the truth about the condition of . . .” “Well, you have a
perforated liver.” Well, how much help is that?

You don’t want to know what the truth of a thing is according to the
well-established mutually-agreed-upon definitions of everything. You
don’t really believe that that’s what I’ve been talking about when I say
ask to know what the Truth is here. Because we’re talking about
correcting illusion. We’re talking about correcting the un-God-like
evidences of a human condition, so that we might know the Truth of the
Divine Condition and have a direct experience of it so that it is a
Knowing of the Truth, because Truth known is the conscious experience of
nothing present to be corrected. And this is the important part because
I hear a lot of students of the Course and of metaphysics and so on
saying the truth of the situation is that there’s nothing needing to be
corrected. And they leave it there without correction occurring!

Right.

When you ask for the Father to provide you with the direct Experience of
the Truth about that one, your experience of it has the direct effect of
causing transformation, regeneration and redemption to actually occur so
that you are no longer presented with the evidence of anything needing
correction, which means no more blood gushing out of a wound onto the
ground, no more opening in the skin, perfect flawless form identifying
the Presence of that individuality perfectly, flawlessly.

Then I’m understanding you’re saying then [that] is healing in the
manner in which you did when you were here 2,000 years ago. Now we will
be doing the same.

Yes.

This is how it was happening.

That is how it was happening. And it was not, therefore, by virtue of
some personal authority I had different from any of you, or any of my
disciples, or anyone in the communities we were in. It had to do with
the fact that when you’re not joining with the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions of the crowd, of the neighborhood, of the community, of
those in your synagogue, or your church, or your political group, and
you are asking the Father what the Truth is, you are turning to the
Altar, relying on something other than even your best knowledge.

The experience is provided because you’re joining with the Father. And
there’s an experience to it that you call Knowing the Truth. Not
something you do mechanically. “I’m going to the Truth for a while. And
the Truth is God is all, and I am His Son, and therefore I must have
been created perfect because He is perfect.” And you go through a
logical process in your mind. You could call that knowing the Truth.
That’s not what I’m talking about. 

When you turn toward the Altar and you are willing to abandon your best
judgments, your best definitions, when you’re willing to dismember
yourself, give up your membership in the group that is making the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions, and lean into the Father’s point of
view, then you will be infilled with the Father’s point of view. And
then you will find that you Know the Truth from the tips of your toes,
from the bottom of the depths of your Being, and it’s unalterable and
unequivocal, and there’s nothing unlike it. And that is when the
transformation, regeneration, redemption occurs.

And remember that the word “redemption” means bringing back to its
original form, or its original state. So redemption of a broken limb,
redemption of an injury, redemption of a sick body is for it to be
brought back into its original state of being the visibility and
tangibility of your individuality. And your individuality is God
expressed right there as you. And so, the transformation, regeneration
and redemption is a way of describing God being glorified in slow
motion, as though it were happening in time. Do you see what I’m saying?

Yes. What I’m hearing you say is that once we do this, we reach within,
we turn to the Altar, we go into our hearts and ask with no pre-thought
about anything, but ask, really ask, then we’re convicted in that moment
of the Truth we join . . .

By the Truth. Yes.

And then we expect a miracle. I mean . . .

No! The miracle is already done.

Well, okay, but to see the transformation . . .

Forget about expecting a miracle. You can have the attitude of expecting
a miracle in the recognition or willingness to see that if you’ll turn
toward the Altar, transformation, regeneration . . .

Oh. Okay.

. . . and redemption will occur.

We know that ahead of time.

Right.

Okay.

You could say that expect an attitude of expecting a miracle is
right-mindedness.

Oh. Okay. So being in that state already . . .

Being in that state already means that there will be a willingness on
your part to turn toward the Altar.

Right.

And desire to have an Experience of Truth that is described as Knowing
the Truth because the Truth has been revealed to you because you have
desired to have the revelation. And you’ve desired to have the
revelation and you will allow the revelation to occur because you are
willing to abandon your allegiance to your best definitions and your pet
theories, and as I’ve said, the pleasure of the sociability that you
experience with everyone who’s in agreement with the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions. In other words, sometimes it causes
you to have to let go of a circle of friends because there has to be a
shift of allegiance from making other people happy to God.

I appreciate your emphasizing and taking time with this very important
point.

You are welcome. Yes.

To take this one step further, if we can… how literal at the human level
will the miracle manifest if one person driving down the freeway sees an
accident, asks for the Father, shuts up, asks to see it as the Father
would have it . . . have us see it . . . wait for the answer. Could one
expect to drive off the freeway, go to the hospital, and see the person
whole? I’m . . .

One might.

. . . trying to . . .

One might see the person actually sit up and stand up there beside the
car in which they had the accident.

Does it take more than one person asking to see it to create the
miracle?

No. It does not.

If no one asks, does the human condition continue? I’m not trying to be
provocative . . .

No!

. . . whatever . . .

If no one realizes that there’s a call for correction, if everyone
thinks this is just the way life is and no one asks, then they will stay
committed to their current definition. “This is just the way life is.”
That phrase is a definition. If you think this is just the way life is,
you will be bound by that phrase, the meaning of those words. You’re
saying there’s nothing more. Nothing more than this is possible.

But if it’s the Father’s Will that that be the situation just because .
. .

Absolutely not! Because, mind you, that the one who’s sitting there
saying, “There’s nothing more to life than just this. This is just
life.”

Is this the victim, the person . . . There are no victims. Is this the
individual who’s in the accident?

No, I am speaking of the person driving by. The person driving by says,
“Uh, that’s life.” Or “Uh, that’s death. That’s just the way things
are.” If nobody asks, if nobody recognizes that this is a perception
rather than a knowing . . . in other words that it’s a misperception of
Reality . . .

(PAUL: I’m sorry. I lost it.)

If one doesn’t recognize that this is a misperception of Reality, one
won’t ask to see more of what Reality truly is. And without asking for
more, that one stays in his isolated separated frame of reference and
he’s bound by it. And unless the individual who was in the accident,
who’s lying on the ground, asks God himself, there won’t be any change
for him.

You need to ask for your Brothers. You need to ask to know the Truth
about them for them. Not only because it will bless them, but because
your caring enough to do that means that you’re willing to abandon your
separate independent point of view that keeps you asleep.

To take one step further for clarification . . .

Yes.

. . . if I am to go home and ask to see my partner as perfect and whole,
and she is to also do that, if there’s still a need for an operation
because the doctors think it’s needed, have we failed to ask or hear
what the Father said? If we ask with a lot of willingness—not just a
little—I mean just how healing can we . . . how much willingness do we
need to create the suggestion you’ve been giving, you know. Who wouldn’t
do it?

Sure.

Did you want to answer this?

Is it a relevant addition to his question?

It is. It’s something that happened to me. I watched a really violent
movie last week, “American History.” And there’s a scene that when I was
going to bed that night was replaying in my mind. It was disturbing to
me. Even though you don’t see the outcome in the film, the outcome of
what happens to this person’s head, but you know it’s really awful.
Right. And so, as I was laying there, it was disturbing me so much, and
it felt like, you know, I was tuning in with you and we were talking
about it. And I felt like you were showing me that if I was in . . . no,
Raj, that I was talking to you, Raj. That if I was in that situation,
and that even if that person’s head had been, you know, destroyed by
another person’s foot right in front of me, that there was a way that I
could be in that situation that was so . . . it was like his head was
whole, whatever it looked like, and if I was just willing to be there
with it, it like . . . it would all be different. And I felt like I had
a completely different feeling inside of me, like it was completely
restored. But it was the perception that was restored. It wasn’t his
head. You know. In other words, his head was Whole, Whole, Whole. You
know?

Yes.

And it was you saying I could get with that despite the whole, horrible
drama that was unfolding where people were upset and hurting each other
and violent with one another. And it gave me like this tremendous peace
to be able to go to sleep.

And I don’t know if I was just hearing what I wanted to hear, or if it
was like a teaching, like a _____ kind of thing.

Oh, it was definitely a teaching. Yes.

Now whatever the situation is, whether the situation seems to call for
surgery, or whether it’s a relationship difficulty, whatever it is,
always keep in mind that the potential is for an instantaneous
correction, an instantaneous healing, I mean in a fraction of a second.

Potential.

This is the potential. Yes.

Okay.

This is the real, actual potential. You may never have come across
somebody who has experienced an instantaneous healing, but they happen!
And so it doesn’t matter whether it’s a broken bone, a tooth that’s half
gone, it doesn’t matter. Instantaneously a correction can occur. Really.
Down here where you are today, or where you think you are, right here in
the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven today, the potential is for all the
Sons and Daughters of God that are here to have instantaneous
breakthroughs into the conscious experience of their Divinity that will
be experienced on the spot as redemption. And I don’t mean spiritual
redemption, or psychological redemption. I mean redemption of bones,
redemption of teeth, redemption of hair, redemption of the bringing back
to the spiritual original of what God is being there right where that
one is.

Now, you ask, how long should you be willing to persist if you don’t see
instantaneous healing? Well, try persisting as long as I have. And what
I mean by that is that’s a very long time as you count time. But you
know what? What better thing do you have to do?

Infinite patience brings immediate results. When there is no impatience
present any longer, then what you are doing, you do because it’s what
you’re Being. And you could say that the doing that took perseverance,
you now do just because there’s nothing else more important, nothing
else you’d rather do than to be intent upon glorifying God in everything
you see, and glorifying God by desiring to see God there, instead of
what your well-developed definitions tell you are there. They’re not
just yours. Your scientists think in terms of mathematical equations,
numbers, digits. And so their definition of form, which is really the
substance of Spirit, reflect the sieve, the filter, that they’re looking
at It through and that has become part of your definition of things;
that your body is matter; that everything you see is matter; that matter
is subject to decay and change and that it is vulnerable and blah blah
blah. And so you take them as authority and you agree with them. And
that’s part of your mutually-agreed-upon definition.

But if you’re willing to look at every form and consider the possibility
that its substance is pure energy and that the energy is Spirit—capital
“S” Spirit, one of the definitions of God—that will open up the windows
of Heaven to you because then you can become curious to know what it
really is with an expectation that what you will discover will be
wonderful. And it’s easy to be willing to discover wonderful things. You
don’t resist discovering wonderful things. And the way I’m talking right
now is right-mindedness. It doesn’t accomplish the goal, but it sets you
in the right direction and allows curiosity to be present, so that you
can dare to abandon your acquired best definitions that have given you a
feeling of security, and turn toward the Altar, the UNknown, what you’re
not sure of yet, so that you can ask to be infilled with what you don’t
know yet and have the experience, the direct Experience of Truth. And so
you persist. You persist because that’s the only way to wake up. That’s
the only way to come back into your Right Mind. That’s the only way to
undo the separation that you believe you accomplished, but never did.

To hear or see the Truth, know the Truth as the Father would have us in
a specific situation, and have a willingness that’s more than just a
little willingness, and not confounding it by keep defining it and
saying, “Father, this is the way it . . .” you know. But just continue
with the prayer, to hold it. You holding the thought, “Let me see it as
You would have me see it.” By holding the fact . . .

Now . . .

Be patient.

. . . let me just say this: Don’t continue with that thought over and
over and over. You’ve got to express the thought and shut up. And . . .

And listen forever.

And listen. Yes.

But . . .

And maybe occasionally renew the question but let there be longer
periods of willing attentiveness to the answer.

Okay.

Now there is one other aspect here. If you don’t seem to have
instantaneous healing, then be willing to hear from your Guidance that
it’s appropriate for the nearest approximation of  transformation,
regeneration, redemption to occur, which might involve surgery at this
point. Because that’s the closest within the mutually-agreed-upon
definition of what everything is that everyone has been able to get to
where there can be a manifestation of transformation, regeneration,
redemption.

Now, if in the surgery, some part of the body is removed, redemption is
still necessary.

And possible.

Well, what’s necessary must be possible. And so when awakening occurs,
let me just put it this way, everything that might seem to have been
taken away through processes that were lesser approximations of
wholeness and completeness, or lesser attempts to arrive at healing
through surgery or whatever, those things that were missing will be
there, will be returned. The redemption of what identifies your
Presence, your individuality perfectly, will be whole. The redemption
will be complete. And so if there was a finger that was lost or a leg
that was lost, it will be present. And you don’t have to wait until you
die to find them returned to you.

I was going to say, “My God! Be willing to expect a miracle!”

And that’s what it . . . let your definition of miracle include that
kind of embodiment of God’s perfection in a moment, in an instant, and
not as something that must take lifetimes to refine your soul to come
back into the full experience of.

So the process of removal that allows life at the human level could be
the miracle, even though that is not the way we would want to see it.

That is correct. If you must read to connect with the Truth that will
heal and your vision is so poor that you can’t read, then get glasses
and say thank you for the glasses that allow you to read so that you can
read the Truth that will promote the transformation that will heal your
eyes. Getting the glasses is not redemption but it allows for redemption
to occur.

So turning to the Altar, asking to see it, and being at peace with the
removal of surgery could be the Father’s answer to my . . . Let me see
it as you would have me see it. The peace. The level of peace.

There’s a statement: Divine Love always has met and always will meet
every human need. The simple fact is that because you never left the
Kingdom of Heaven and you never stopped being the Christ, you never
stopped being the place where God is Presence-ing Himself, the Truth
about you, your Wholeness, the Truth about you that you are loved, the
Truth about you that you were never abandoned, remains the Truth, you
might say, right in the middle of your dream.

And so, because it is the nature and function of your Being to fulfill
itself perfectly, you will find the means within the dream for your
needs to be met as you come back Home. And so, you say, “Father, I’ve
asked to be infilled with the direct Experience of Your Presence in her
or in him. And humanly speaking, there’s a need that needs to be
addressed because she’s bleeding to death, or such-and-such a thing is
keeping normal functions from occurring, and there is a need for
correction at some level. I’m not seeing it in terms of instantaneous
healing. Should we take steps, humanly speaking, to secure the
ongoingness of her life so that, together, we can continue to ask and
have the experience of complete redemption, which would mean the
reappearance of what seems to be lost surgically?”

Normal functioning.

Yes!

Without the reproduction _____.

That’s right.

Thank you very much.

You are welcome.

A long time ago, Raj, you said to me when I was beginning to make my
transformation to a practitioner of the healing arts, to be the
transparency and not to take the responsibility.  And so whenever I feel
like I really want this to happen, I really want this healing to happen,
I recognize it that it’s me taking responsibility and that I need to let
that go so that whatever truly should happen, in the Divine Sense, can
take place.

That’s right because any intent you have that you become intense about
becomes an opaqueness, a lack of transparency, that disallows for God’s
Love to flow through you because you wish to be the servant of the
Father’s Will. You cannot be willful about another’s healing. You must
be willing to allow it. And, in order for that to happen, you have to
get out of the way as an ego having a want.

Stop it.

Pardon?

It will stop it.

Yes. Because, at the bottom line, what the ego wants is it wants to have
healing at its hand. When you want it, you want it to be evident that
you accomplished it.

The credit.

Exactly. And that’s where the opaqueness is. Okay . . .

It is miracle-minded because it heals misperception, and this is indeed
a miracle in view of how you perceive yourself. 

Right-mindedness is miracle-minded because it heals misperception. It
heals misperception because its result is that you become infilled with
the direct Experience of Truth and this is indeed a miracle in view of
how you perceive yourself.

So, the interesting thing is that the correct perception of yourself at
the moment is that there’s no you to have a perception at all and that
your assertion that you do exist as something capable of having
perceptions of Reality is a pure illusion, a mistake, a confusion
calling for correction. And so, at the bottom line, what we’ve been
talking about today points to the need to open up to your Source so that
that which really constitutes your Presence, which is God, might find
room in your Conscious Experience of Being to be the illuminating
Presence of your mind and reveal Himself in You as You, and thus open
you up to the Experience of Reality, of the Kingdom of Heaven, of
unalterable perfection, and cause you to wake up.

Mind you, in the process, in the experience of the Kingdom of Heaven
that’s currently being called the human experience rather than the
Kingdom of Heaven, you will appear to be an agent for change, and your
Brothers and Sisters will be healed. And you will find yourself healed.
But the improvement of the human condition is not the goal. The
improvement of the human condition is always the manifestation of God
occurring demonstrating that God is with you as an experience of being
Loved. And that experience of God loving you illuminates for you your
Divinity again at an experiential level of Knowing, which transforms
your mind and opens the door for more and more influx of the Conscious
Experience of Truth.

And so, in a way, it’s a self-fulfilling movement of awakening. And this
is just the beginning of this section. There’s more good stuff coming.
But we will end here for today. Thank you.

Thank you.



















A Course In Miracles (reference pages)

Chapter 3 – RETRAINING THE MIND – Section: CONFLICT AND THE EGO (Raj did
not start reading from the Sparkly Book until July 2003, therefore,
there can be a lot of difference in the readings.) Sparkly Book – p.53
/   JCIM – p.22  /   CIMS – p.46 Chapter 3 – THE INNOCENT PERCEPTION –
Section:  ERROR AND THE EGO 1 First Edition  –  p. 37   /    Second
Edition – p 41 2 Students – commenting or asking a question.
