---
title: Jul 6, 2003
ref: T4.1 Right Teaching and Right Learning
complete: false
---

Good afternoon.  And good afternoon to everyone who is joining us on the
internet.

RIGHT TEACHING AND RIGHT LEARNING1 

Well, we’ve talked before about the fact that all of you are always
teaching. You might not think you are, but you are. A lot of the
teaching you engage in is indirect; sneaky, in other words. You tend to
set your limits with others with a tone of voice or a choice of words
that say, “Mmm, you’re overstepping your boundaries there,” without
saying “You’re overstepping your boundaries there.” You constantly teach
each other how to behave with you, again, for the most part, indirectly.

We’ve been talking about the authority problem and the fact that it’s
just another version of the origin problem. That when you are denying
the Author of You, your Father, and claiming a capacity to stand in your
own right and see things in your own way as you choose, you take over
authorship, you steal it away from God. Or at least you pretend to, and
then you convince yourself that you’re actually accomplishing it and
then you believe yourself. And now, in this state of autonomy, you’re
put in the position, a required position of being a teacher of your
particular way of seeing things because you need others to agree with it
if there’s to be any sort of harmony.

And so at the bottom line, when you have your back to the Altar and the
Father is nowhere in your sight, you have to constantly be in a state of
teaching, and re-teaching, and reconfirming the teaching, and
influencing others in your experience. That’s the state of being, you
might say. The state of being of the human condition. Teaching becomes a
means of control. And you all control each other into the best semblance
of order you can achieve [small laugh] while all of you are still trying
to be independent.

When Paul first reached out to me and we made the connection, I told
him, not immediately but within weeks because he was in a financial
problem, I said to him, “Your income comes from being centered.” He had
just finished a useless journey, as we talked last week, where he had
attempted to express authority in a brand new way and develop a brand
new idea that would control his world into a moneymaking, profitable and
successful business venture. Unfortunately, as with most good plans of
mice and men, it failed and he had, as we talked again about last week,
his own crucifixion experience of total failure and being put in a
position where he recognized that he had no personal power. And that’s
what it took in order for him to say “help” and reach out.

Now, it’s interesting because as a result of my saying to him, “your
income comes from being centered,” which was another way of saying,
“your fulfillment comes from turning back toward the Altar,” I just
didn’t use those terms, he ventured into a brand new way of being where
he allowed fulfillment to unfold, rather than manipulating it into his
experience. And he found peace with that. So much so, that it became
utterly natural and he didn’t even think about it until one day, perhaps
seven years ago, someone visiting said, “What’s the biggest change that
you’ve experienced having Raj in your life?” And he hadn’t thought about
it. But at that moment when he thought about it, he realized the biggest
change was that he was living without fear. Here he is living without
any control, living without exercising any control, making the Gift of
Love that the two of us express together as a result of the joining. And
so however much or however little was in the bank account was not a
trigger for emotion, because he learned that his income comes from being
centered, being in his peace, joining with me, and being out from that
experience. This in spite of the fact that he still is reluctant to do
it 100% of the time.

Now, I’m mentioning this because we’re talking about the fact that when
learning occurs, change occurs. And when change occurs, you start being
in the world in a new way. Not according to the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions that I have referred to as ego infrastructure. And when you
do that, and you find the joy of it and you find the peace of it, you
will still find others in your experience who want to teach you,
convince you that the well-established infrastructure is still valid and
you need to pay attention to it. And so teaching goes on, in Paul’s
case, in interesting ways.

Someone who requested materials, some of the Raj Materials, and had not
received them because there weren’t funds to be able to supply them with
and Paul has learned that if there aren’t, he doesn’t try to do what is
impossible and continues to make the Gift until it is possible. This
person called and suggested that perhaps orders, requests for materials
should be filled for those who make contributions first. And then, if
there are funds left, send them to those who don’t make contributions.

Of course that is untenable, but it’s an interesting way to try to
reestablish the agreed-upon definition, the financial and business
infrastructure. Now the time came when some of those requests could be
filled. In fact, a large number of sets of tapes were sent. And, almost
immediately there was a check in the mail; not humungous but
substantial. Well, now here’s another example of teaching. “I get, you
get. The moment I get something from you, you’ll get something from me.”
And it’s a temptation. It says, “Here is the way the infrastructure
works, at least with me.” And it suggests that it will work that way for
everyone else. And therefore, if there is a need for more, if it would
be nice for there to be more inflow of funds so that more of the
information that everyone wants could be sent out to them, all it
requires is to get it out to them because they’ll send it. They then
will pay for it. But you know what? It completely sidetracks the fact
that one’s fulfillment comes from being centered and not from
manipulation, even in the most indirect way that a quick response will
create a quick payment. You see? You see how indirect? But the teaching
is there.

Another suggestion is that those who make a gift by means of a credit
card who say, “I would like to make a contribution monthly until I say
otherwise,” that if their credit card expires and therefore the
withdrawal ceases occurring, that there should be someone to call them
up and knowing that they want to make a contribution, bring to their
attention that their card has expired and it has ceased. And again,
we’re in the realm of manipulation, manipulation of income in the guise
of being friendly, in the guise of helping that individual succeed in
doing what they want to do anyway. But when that happens, if that
happened, the gift wouldn’t come because there was an impulse in the
giver to give, but because someone else had reminded them of their lapse
of memory. It’s very tempting, because all of you are familiar with the
already established ego infrastructure, to slip back into it with a sort
of spiritual slant to it, if you see what I mean, which means that in
actuality you’re abandoning spirituality and you’re just functioning in
the mutually-agreed-upon definitions with a slightly new set of words to
describe what you’re doing.

This is just an example of how you are all teaching in indirect ways,
and even with the highest motives. The infrastructure that is firmly
established says, “You get this for that. Tit for tat.” It’s a barter.
It’s a bargain. It’s not a gift. Love is a Gift. 

And as you turn toward the Altar and as you open yourself up for
learning, what’s the fundamental lesson going to be? Love. It’s going to
be how to learn how to embody Love, and that is indeed going to require
you to be from a new foundation, from your connection with your Source
so that you are reflecting and glorifying God. Embodying God, embodying
Truth, embodying Love quote “in the world” unquote, meaning right where
everyone else is still stuck in the rut. Right where everyone else has a
devotion to the very thing that they need to abandon, to let go of, and
explore the possibility of living without. To explore the possibility of
living without exercising authority, but rather yielding to God and His
Authorship of everything that identifies your fulfillment.

Now, here’s another way in which you teach each other, and that’s your
choice of words. You talk entirely differently with a new lover than you
do with an old friend, and you convey different things with a new lover
than you do with an old friend.

[laughing] Paul knows that his name is Paul and he knew that when his
mother said, “Paul,” she was talking to him. But he also knew that when
she said, “Paul Norman Tuttle, ” ohhhh! That meant something different.
Different choice of words, a different way of saying it.

Today, we’re going to break the usual format of passing the microphone.
I want you all to read along, but I’m going to read from the text as
Bill Thetford typed it before any editing was done to it. And I’m doing
it for a reason. We’re on the subject of right teaching and right
learning.

You will find as I read today that there are different words, and you
will find that the difference is that the words in the 1st and 2nd
edition have been couched in, what shall I say, the high style of a
significant document that fits in a library of significant documents
that have withstood the test of time. And yet, you know what? It isn’t
the order of the words and it isn’t the preciseness of the words that
makes the Course of value. What makes the Course of value is the fact
that I was talking to someone. I was talking to Helen Schucman. And I
was talking to Bill Thetford. It was a communication. Not a dictation of
a script. Not a dictation of a book to withstand the test of time. What
makes the Course of value is that it demonstrates that I am, and that I
am in relationship to each of you just as I was with Helen and just as I
was with Bill.

And the value is in the relationship, and not in the words or how
they’re couched. And so, I want you to read along. I do not want you to
become distracted by the differences you see. Just notice them, but pay
attention to what I’m sharing. And pay attention to the fact that I was
talking to two human beings who were willing to listen thereby
establishing our Brotherhood now as a Living Thing—mine with them and
mine with you—and that I won’t talk to you, as you can tell right now,
in a stilted fashion, but as a Brother talking to a Brother or a Sister,
talking to another Christ who has forgotten that he or she is the
Christ. Reminding you of it. Inspiring you to embrace it as a
possibility and explore it. And to be with me as a Brother on equal
footing as you rediscover Who You Are.

RIGHT TEACHING AND RIGHT LEARNING 

We have spoken of many different human symptoms, and at this level . . .   

Meaning the human level.

. . . there is almost endless variation. There is, however, only ONE
cause of all of them. The authority problem IS “the root of all evil.”
Money is but one of its many reflections, and is a reasonably
representative example of the kind of thinking which stems from it. 

There we go with the existing ego infrastructures regarding business.
Money is but one of its many reflections—the root of all evil—and is a
reasonably representative example of the kind of thinking which stems
from it. 

The idea of buying and selling implies precisely the kind of exchange
that the Soul cannot understand at all, because its Supply is always
abundant and all its demands are fully met. 

Every symptom which the ego has made involves a contradiction in terms. 

Be patient. We’ll come to the part that’s in the book. [audience
laughter] 

Every symptom which the ego has made involves a contradiction in terms.
This is because the mind is split between the ego and the Soul, so that
WHATEVER the ego makes is incomplete and contradictory. This untenable
position is the result of the authority problem which, because it
accepts the one inconceivable thought as its premise, can only produce
ideas which are inconceivable. The term "profess" is used quite
frequently in the Bible. To profess is to identify with an idea, and
offer the idea to others to be their own. 

There you go. Teaching. Influencing. And influencing for the purpose of
affirming and establishing ego infrastructure; detailed complex little
rules that govern how things work, and what to do if they aren’t working
that way, and having four or five backup plans to replace the existing
one under a variety of different circumstances, et cetera. And, not only
that, you have to teach all of this to someone else so that they know
how to behave in order to be abiding by the agreed-upon definitions and
have some sort of harmony.

So to profess is to identify with an idea, an infrastructure, and offer
the idea to others to be their own. To be their own! Now, if that’s not
an imposition, I don’t know what it is. And if that’s not a practice of
an exercise of control, I don’t know what it is. 

The idea does not lessen; it becomes STRONGER. 

Now you’ll find what’s in the Text.

A good teacher . . .    

And I’m going to add this: humanly speaking

A good teacher clarifies his own ideas, and strengthens them by teaching
them. 

And when I say “a good teacher,” I means it in the best of terms. 

A good teacher clarifies his own ideas, and strengthens them by teaching
them. Teacher and pupil are alike in the learning process. They are in
the same order of learning, and unless they SHARE their lessons, they
will lack conviction. A good teacher must believe in the ideas which he
professes, but he must meet another condition; he must also believe in
the students to whom he offers his ideas. 

Now, humanly speaking, none of you really consistently brings into play
the best of being a good teacher because, for the most part, you tend
not to believe in the students to whom you’re offering the ideas. You
see them as lacking or negligent or ignorant or uncaring or insensitive
or unwise, and therefore needing your wise counsel to be pumped down
their throat so as to turn them into something worthy. That’s not
believing in your students. That’s not called being a good teacher.

A good teacher looks at his Brother and sees the Christ there, sees the
potential there, and keeps that potential in the foreground as he
illuminates ideas. He sees the student as capable of understanding, even
though he’s currently ignorant. Capable of understanding math. Capable
of understanding how to reach those fingers around to the right frets on
the guitar so that the chord comes out on pitch and clear. He constantly
sees the ultimate there as he helps illuminate the student’s capacity to
let it in and embrace it and own it. 

Continuing . . .

Many stand guard over their ideas because they want to protect their
thought systems as they are, and learning means change. Change is always
fearful to the separated ones, because they cannot conceive of it as a
change towards HEALING the separation. They ALWAYS perceive it as a
change towards further separation, because the separation was their
first experience of change.  

When you first said, “Father, I’d rather see it my way,” and undertook
to imaginatively embrace an entirely different interpretation of some
part of the Kingdom of Heaven, you experienced a change. And the first
change you experienced was a loss of infiniteness. You experienced the
tininess of the stance that you had taken in order to have an idea of
your own and apply it to some part of the Kingdom of Heaven. That was a
major change.

And as I’ve said before, the result of that was an uneasy feeling
because that stance is unnatural to a Child of God, to an Expression of
God, to the visibility and tangibility of God. And so, your ever-present
Sanity provided a warning, an awareness that this was unnatural. And
then you became afraid because you were alone, because you were tiny,
because you were separate. And that brought up what you would call an
instinct of self-preservation to maintain that isolated point of view
and to overcome the fear.

So, that was your first experience of change, because change is not
normal to the Divine State of Mind that is the Father’s embodied in You.

Now I’m reading again:

You believe that, if you allow no change to enter into your ego, your
Soul will find peace. This profound confusion is possible only if one
maintains that the same thought system can stand on two foundations. 

Meaning the human and the Divine foundation.

NOTHING can reach the Soul from the ego, and nothing FROM the Soul can
strengthen the ego, or reduce the conflict within it. 

Well, you say, “Not even a little bit?” No, not even a little bit. If
you’re not looking toward the Altar, you can’t see the Altar. It’s
simple. If you’re not looking at something, you can’t see it. If you
have your back to it, you can’t see it. And whatever is going on there
will not register with you. And so there is no transfer.

That’s why I brought out last week that there is no such thing as an
actually separate ego. There is only the Divine One that you are, the
Christ that you are, pretending that you aren’t the Christ and suffering
from that belief. But everything that the ego seems to be accomplishing,
even though it’s just an empty packet of imaginative nothing, anything
that it seems to accomplish is accomplished by the Divine One that you
are by your bringing into play what is Real about you, while consciously
denying that the Divine One that you are is doing it.

So the ego is never going to really become educated and finally become
divine. It’s the Divine One that you are who wants to go Home. It’s the
Divine One that you are that feels the impetus to no longer tolerate
suffering, because something in you knows that it’s illegitimate for
you. It is the Divine One in you, you could say, returning Home. Or you
could say it’s the Divine One in you that you are letting come forward
more fully in your conscious experience of yourself.

I’m reading again . . .

The ego IS a contradiction. 

In other words, the only thing that can exist in that imaginative
nothing is imaginative conflict and nothing else. 

Man's self . . .  

With a small “s.”

. . . and God's .Self ARE in opposition. 

“But, Father, I’d rather see it my way.” That is in opposition to the
Father. And everything that follows from your decision to see things
your way is going to be conflicted.

I’m reading again . . .

They are opposed in creation, in will, and in outcome. They are
fundamentally irreconcilable because the Soul cannot perceive and the
ego cannot know. They are therefore NOT IN COMMUNICATION, and can never
BE in communication. 

So again, don’t think that your ego is becoming enlightened and somehow
being transformed so that it will be able to get back into the Kingdom
of Heaven as an actual divine ego. The ego is nothing but an
infrastructure of thoughts and ideas that are used to secure, even more
firmly, independence.

Continuing . . .

Nevertheless, the ego can learn because its maker can be misguided, but
CANNOT make the totally lifeless out of the life-given. The Soul need
not be taught, but the ego MUST.   

Because you are so closely identified with the ego, it will seem to you
as though you and ego are making progress and are becoming enlightened.

But here’s the beauty of it. What’s really happening is that the Divine
One that you are is not being obscured as completely and as skillfully,
and the Divine One that you are, the Christ that you are right now is
showing up more and more, and in the process the ego is dissolving. The
infrastructures that have held together your so-called authority and
your so-called power is yielding because there’s a shift of attention
and a shift of intention within you to find that Place of Excellence in
you that is divine. And let It be magnified because you are choosing to
Love It more than the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, the ego
infrastructures, and the attempt to control because there’s a promise of
success.

Continuing . . .

The ultimate reason why learning is perceived as frightening is because
learning DOES lead to the relinquishment (NOT destruction) of the ego to
the Light of the Soul. 

And this is a key point. Waking up is not a matter of destroying the
ego. How can you destroy what is nothing but a collection of imaginative
thoughts that never had any actual existence? The ultimate reason why
learning is perceived as frightening is because learning does lead to
the relinquishment (not destruction) of the ego to the Light—the capital
“L” Light—of the Soul.

This is the change the ego MUST fear because it does not share my
charity. My lesson was like yours, and because I learned it I can teach
it. I never attack your egos . . .

You see, I don’t try to destroy your egos. You don’t waste your time on
nothing. I don’t waste my time on nothing. I don’t try to get rid of
what you think you made out of nothing more than empty packets to which
you’ve added the Christ of you and you said, “Oh! There’s a real ego!”,
all the while choosing to ignore the fact that you added what was Real
to nothing and filled the void with that which was Real and that’s why
it seems like there is something there.

I never attack your egos, but I DO try to teach you how their thought
systems . . .  

How their infrastructure.

. . . arose. When I remind you of your TRUE creation, your egos cannot
BUT respond with fear. 

Teaching and learning are your greatest strengths now because you MUST
change your mind and help others change theirs.   

Now don’t let your little egos get too happy here. The only way real
change will occur is when you say, “Father, what is the Truth here?
Father, how does this work? Father, even if the way things really work
goes against the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, the ruts that are so
well-established, even if it’s going to make me look like an oddball, I
want to know how do things really work? How can I be in harmony with
Reality, rather than the way I think things ought to be?”

Continuing . . .

It is pointless to refuse to tolerate change because you believe you can
demonstrate that, by doing so, the separation has not occurred. 

You see? “Well, if I don’t allow for change, everything will be
perfectly stable. And if everything is perfectly stable, that will be a
manifestation of the orderliness and harmony of God.” You see?

But that’s sort of like wanting to get in touch with your Guidance and
knowing that your mind has to become still, and so you learn to meditate
and you learn how to go into the silence. You learn how to experience
your mind being still, and then you don’t allow any Movement whatsoever.
When the fact is that communion with your Guide, turning toward the
Altar and inquiring of the Father what the Truth is, is going to mean
there will be Movement in the stillness. But if you’re going to hold
everything to perfect silence, the disallowing for the Movement of God,
the Movement of Love, the Movement of Truth, to register with you, you
will not hear anything and you will not feel the Father’s Love. And you
will not learn anything new.

Continuing . . .

The dreamer who doubts the reality of his dream while he is still
dreaming is not really healing the level-split. You HAVE dreamed of a
separated ego, . . 

In other words, you’ve made it up. 

. . . and you HAVE believed in a world which rests upon it. This is very
real to you. You cannot undo this by doing nothing and NOT changing. 

When you’re suffering, you are experiencing a call for correction.
You’re experiencing a call for change. When you’re going through a
crucifixion, having fallen flat on not your face but your derrière,
you’re experiencing a call for correction, a call for change.

And you know what? You know what I want to teach you today? Change is
good. Change is something to be desired, because the change we’re
talking about will constitute the instantaneous relief and release from
suffering because you’re not reaffirming the mutually-agreed-upon
definitions, the ego infrastructure that can be nothing other than
conflicted and unpleasant.

This is utterly simple, isn’t it? You cannot undo this by doing nothing
and not changing. Truth is utterly simple.

Continuing . . .  

If you are willing to renounce the role of guardian of your thought
system and open it to me, I will correct it very gently and lead you
home. 

This is what I said to Helen. This is what I said to Bill. This is what
I say to you. If you are willing to renounce the role of guardian of
your thought system, what you made-up, everything that you’ve made-up,
and open it to me, I will correct it very gently and lead you Home,
because… this is not in the book, because I love you and you’re my
Brother and my Sister. You are fellow Christs and you and I deserve to
be with each other in full recognition of Who We Are.

Every good teacher hopes to give his students so much of his own
thinking that they will one day no longer need him.   

Well, what’s the best thinking that I can offer you. The best thinking
that I can offer you is whatever encourages you to be willing to abandon
the mutually-agreed-upon definitions and step into the void, where you
think you don’t know the answers because you didn’t make them up, so
that you might find that the answers are already there and you knew them
from the beginning. Those are the best thoughts I can give to you.

Dare, dare to step into what your ego calls the unknown, but which to
the Divine You has always been known, so that you might become once
again conscious of what you have always known and wake up. And don’t be
afraid of the gargoyles that the ego throws up at you when you do that.

And don’t be discouraged by the attempts of those around you who would,
in their best and greatest caring, encourage you to once again
re-embrace the mutually-agreed-upon definitions, the business
infrastructures, the infrastructures of the psychology of relationships
and how they work, how they ought to work that somebody made up. Don’t
be discouraged when the invitation to come back into the old patterns is
made.

Continuing . . .

This . . .  

The hope that one’s students will no longer need him. 

. . . is the one real goal of the parent, teacher and therapist. This
goal will not be achieved by those who believe that they will LOSE their
child or pupil or patient if they succeed. It is IMPOSSIBLE to convince
the ego of this because it goes against all of its own laws. 

All of its own infrastructures. 

But remember that laws . . .

These infrastructures.

. . . are set up to protect the continuity of the system in which the
lawmaker BELIEVES. 

It is natural enough for the ego to try to protect itself, once you have
made it, but it is NOT natural for YOU to want to obey its laws unless
YOU believe in them. The ego cannot make this choice because of the
nature of its origin. 

In other words, it doesn’t have a capacity to make a choice at all
because it’s been made-up out of whole cloth, out of nothing. A little
packet of nothing that you poured into space and then added a little or
a lot of something Real, the Divine One that you are, and thus
apparently activated these magic invisible crystals of nothing and made
something that never existed before, and actually doesn’t even exist now
because the only thing enliving it is a little bit of something Real you
added to it while ignoring completely the fact that you added to it
something that was Real.

The ego cannot make this choice because of the nature of its origin. YOU
can... 

Make this choice.

. . . because of the nature of YOURS. 

Your origin is the Father.

Egos can clash in any situation, but Souls cannot clash at all. If you
perceive a teacher as merely a “larger ego,” you WILL be afraid, because
to ENLARGE an ego IS to increase separation anxiety. 

Now, listen to me. 

I will teach with you and live with you if you will think with me, but
my goal will always be to absolve you finally from the NEED for a
teacher. 

These words are real meanings expressed by me to Helen and Bill and
thereby demonstrate, or embody, quote “in the world” unquote my function
with everyone. That’s what makes this Course valuable. Not how the words
are put together. Not whether they’re put together so beautifully that
they’ll withstand the test of time in a library of great books. But
because it conveys to you a Relationship that’s Real, a Relationship
that arises out of my Love for You, not puny little piss-ant egos, but
the Christ that each one of You is right now! And it’s escaping your
notice.

And you deserve for it not to escape your notice. It’s too wonderful not
to be conscious of. So I’ll give you a nudge and a support and a kick in
the butt, but always with Love. Never in a way that will discourage you
truly. So that you don’t forget to be inquisitive and you don’t forget
to be open to the fuller Meaning of your Self. And I will do this until
you remember Who You Are. And the moment you remember Who You Are,
together we will rejoice. And I won’t be your teacher. I will be your
Brother, your full-fledged Brother whom you know intimately infinitely.
And so together we will experience our union. We will recognize
ourselves in each other.

And then, you might say, we will learn of God, because both of us will
be fully available to the Movement of Creation in Its Infinite Meanings
with none of it escaping our notice. And together we will be able to
stand in awe of the incredibleness of the Movement of God that we’re not
separate from in any way.

Continuing . . .  

This is the OPPOSITE of the ego-oriented teacher's goal. He is concerned
with the effect of HIS ego on OTHER egos, and therefore interprets their
interaction . . .

. . . what? . . 

. . . as a means of ego preservation. 

You teach each other what you believe. Why? So that you can find mutual
agreement with what you believe, and in finding mutual agreement you get
confirmation of what you believe, and who you believe you are becomes
strengthened in your mind and the one you have convinced has become your
follower.

Continuing . . .

I would not be able to devote myself to teaching if I believed this, and
YOU will not be a devoted teacher as long as YOU maintain it. I am
constantly being perceived as a teacher either to be exalted or
rejected, but I do not accept either perception for myself. 

It may look like I’m a Teacher, but I’m your Brother. And I’m just being
your Brother. I’m just loving you. And Love inspires that in you which
is Divine to remember what it knows so that that in you which is Divine
can come out of the closet, stand forth, and be experienced and owned
and embodied.

Continuing . . .

Your worth is NOT established by your teaching OR your learning. Your
worth was established by God.  

Or we could say your worth is being established by God in every moment
because You are the Ever New Living Presence of a Current and Living
God. Creation is now, not off in the distant past. Your worth was
established by God.

As long as you dispute this... 

Hmmm. You say, “Well, why would I dispute that?” Well, you dispute it by
not checking in with God, by not thinking about God, by not thinking
with God, as you engage in the simplest of relationships in your day.

You dispute the fact that your worth was established by God in every
attempt you make to establish it in the eyes of your brothers, instead
of saying, “to hell with what they think,” and letting your already
existing worth shine forth for no good reason. Not to teach anybody
anything. But because you have no pleasure other than letting the
capital “M” Meaning embodied right where you are by God as an Expression
of Himself to be the only thing present right where you are, and letting
the chips fall where they may.

As long as you dispute this EVERYTHING you do will be fearful,
particularly any situation which lends itself to the
“superiority-inferiority” fallacy. Teachers must be patient, and repeat
their lessons until they are learned. 

But when there’s Love, it isn’t really called patience. It’s just called
caring enough to express the Truth until it registers, because you know
that there’s nothing better than having the Truth register and be known,
because the Truth sets you free from your illusions. Teachers must be
patient and repeat their lessons until they are learned.

I am willing to do this because I have no right to set your learning
limits for you. 

You see? I’m not here to influence you. I’m not here to control you. In
fact, if I tried to control you, it would bring your ego into play which
is nothing more than a defense mechanism. So if I want you to make fast
progress, I will not try to enforce anything on you at all. And that’s
the one thing your ego can’t defend itself against. And it’s the one
thing that allows Truth to remain where it can be seen by the Divine One
that you are, because the ego has gotten no trigger that says, “Throw up
a smoke screen and cloud this Truth from sight.”

Continuing . . .  

Once again, NOTHING you do or think or wish or make is necessary to
establish your worth. 

And of course those are all the things the ego does. It do-s things,
thinks things, wishes things, and makes/makes-up things. But nothing you
do or think or wish or make is necessary to establish your worth. 

This point is NOT debatable except in delusions. Your ego is NEVER at
stake because God did NOT create it. Your Soul is never at stake because
He DID. ANY confusion on this point is a delusion, and no form of
devotion is possible as long as this delusion lasts. 

Again, you can’t have a delusion about nothing. You can only ever be
deluded about something. You can only ever have a false belief about
something. So when it’s said, “this world is an illusion,” it’s a
misperception of something that actually exists. It’s a delusion you’re
experiencing about something Real.

Continuing . . .

The ego tries to exploit ALL situations into forms of praise for itself
in order to overcome its doubts.   

That’s its whole function, is to confirm itself. And it has to do that
because it doesn’t really exist. And in order for it to seem to exist,
it is on a forever quest to confirm itself by convincing others that it
exists and getting their confirmation so as to strengthen its belief in
itself. It’s a tremendous amount of work creating these infrastructures,
these mutually-agreed-upon definitions. And you have no idea how much
energy you’re expending trying to keep them active, not only in your
mind, but in everybody else’s mind so that they can cooperate with it
and confirm it.

And not only that. The more complex it gets, the harder it is for you to
remember all the rules you’ve made up regarding who you are and how
things should work. And as a result, things begin to fall apart at the
seams because you are trying to keep too many balls juggling. The ego
tries to exploit all situations into forms of praise or
self-confirmation for itself in order to overcome its doubts. 

It will be doubtful forever, or rather, as long as you believe in it. 

Or, as long as you can keep those balls goin’ around.

You who made it CANNOT trust it because you KNOW it is not real. The
only SANE solution is not to try to change reality, . .

Which is all that the ego has been trying to do.

. . . which is indeed a fearful attempt, but to see it as it IS. YOU are
part of reality, which stands unchanged beyond the reach of your ego,
but within easy reach of your Soul. When you are afraid, be still and
KNOW that God is real and YOU are His beloved Son in whom He is well
pleased. Do not let your ego dispute this, because the ego cannot know
what is as far beyond its reach as you are. 

You all are so significantly different from the ego definition you’ve
made-up about yourself. All of you have had the opportunity to have a
magnet and a piece of paper and some iron filings, and to have put the
iron filings on the paper and put the magnet underneath it and to shake
it a little bit and watch the iron filings gather together in a pattern
that show the lines of the magnetic field. And you say, “Wow! Look at
the magnetic field!” Well, you know what? You haven’t seen the magnetic
field yet. All you’ve seen is where the magnetic filing . . . where the
filings have gathered. If you were really seeing the magnetic field, you
would see the magnetic field extended above the paper and underneath the
paper and as a three-dimensional shape, if you will, of energy that you
still can’t see.

The energy is so much more than the pattern that the filings let you
see. Do you see what I’m saying? The Energy of Spirit is so much more
than what you see. And what you see is not the Energy, but the
visibility and tangibility of it.

So, please walk out of here today, or for those of you at home, turn off
your computers and go out, and be open to, be desirous of experiencing,
be less defended against that of You which is so much more than the
current definition that you’re letting yourself see.

Beware of teachers who teach with authority. Beware of teachers whose
intent is to force change in you. Beware of teachers whose teaching
process invades you, and coerces you, because those teachers think
they’re egos. And what they’re teaching can only confirm the ego
infrastructures; the experience of existence that one has with his or
her back to the Altar.

And then, beware of being one of those kinds of teachers. If you don’t
know what the Truth is from God, keep your mouth shut and don’t teach
anyone anything. There would be amazing growth if every one of you did
that because immediately there would be silence. And there would be
silence for such a long time that it would become intolerable to you
because it is impossible for you to not be expressive.

But if you’re going to be true to the willingness not to teach something
God hasn’t disclosed to you, you will find yourself, like someone who’s
not breathing, needing a breath. And you will come to the point where
you will say, “God, I really do want to hear You! I really do want to
know the Truth because I can’t hold my breath any longer! I can’t be
silent any longer!”

And you will become defenseless, and the penetration will occur and
inspiration will occur and you will have something to talk about and
express. But you know what? It won’t be to try to convince anybody. You
know what? It might come out as a laugh that lasts three weeks. A laugh
of such Joy that you would never want to stop laughing. And after three
weeks, those around you will have begun to laugh, and they will have
laughed and it will extend on out. Because you will have been teaching,
and you might not even have noticed that you were teaching, because you
were just being the Presence of God.

And I promise you something. We can get together for a millennia of
Sunday afternoons and I will never run dry of ways to encourage you to
look with innocence, to look with fresh eyes, to look for the
unexpected, to look for that which goes beyond all of the
mutually-agreed-upon definitions and the habits with which you’ve looked
at everything that keep you from seeing with new eyes. I can do it! And
you know what? I can do it happily. I will never get tired. That’s what
kind of teacher I am.

You know what? That’s the kind of teacher you all are, if you’ll just
remember to bring that into play. And remember you’re always teaching.
Do you wanna be a bad teacher or a good teacher? Well, I want you to
experience a connection with God where being a teacher of any kind
becomes less important than being the place where God shines through
because that is such an inspiring and wonderful, and I’m going to say,
mind-boggling experience.

I must say it again. WOW!  And I look forward to being with you next
week. I actually look forward to your being with me a lot more during
the week. Know that I’m with you. I’m just waiting.

Chapter 4 – THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL – Section:  RIGHT TEACHING AND RIGHT
LEARNING (Raj is now reading from the Sparkly Book—there can be a lot of
difference in the readings.) 1 Sparkly Book – p.66   /   JCIM – p.28  /
CIMS – p.57 Chapter 4 – THE ILLUSIONS OF THE EGO – Section:
INTRODUCTION First Edition  –  p. 47   /    Second Edition – p 53

