---
layout: narrative
title: "Preface to ACIM Sparkly Edition"
source: "ACIM Sparkly Edition"
surl: /acim/intro/acim/
burl: /acim/intro/preface/
book: Preface
contents: None
toc:
-   Publishers Note
-   Use of Terms
---

<div markdown="1" class="center">

---

***“It is the Word of God, to be kept holy forever&hellip;”***

*“This time there will be no failure, no loss of truth, no
misunderstanding and no misrepresentation I will direct its growth as it
reaches from the paper on which it was written into the hearts for which
it was intended.”*

**(Special Message 12/31/75)**
</div>

As preface to this edition of A Course In Miracles, we acknowledge our
realization of the truth of the words spoken to us through Helen
Schucman as those of Jesus, “the Way, the Truth and the Life.”

To you and all our brothers, we offer this edition of his A Course In
Miracles.

The task of editing, deciding which material would be excluded from the
original dictation and that to be included in the published version, was
entrusted to William Thetford. The edit of the Text used herein is
Bill’s, as he was directed by Jesus. The Workbook and Manual are as close
to the un-edited generation of “scribed” dictation from Jesus to Helen
as is available to us at this time.

Similarly, the CAPITALIZATION and hyphenation of some of the words,
along with the use of parenthesis and punctuation, remain consistent
with the style of the “scribes” used in the source material.

We recognize and honor the original intent of our Savior Jesus to be
known as author with Helen as a “just” scribe whose name is not to be
associated with authorship, but with the willingness to hear his voice
and take notes.

<div markdown="1" class="center">
*“Do not attempt to break God’s copyright, because His Authorship
alone can copy right.”*

**(UR Text, 12/11/65)**
</div>

May this be to you, as it is NOW for us, the opening of your mind and
heart to the Love of God. It is with His love and our gratitude that we
offer thanks to all who have played their part in making this edition of
A Course In Miracles available.

And now our thanks to all. May you realize the Peace of God as eternally
yours, abiding in you now, and in this realization may you recognize the
Kingdom of Heaven wherein you have always been at home.

<div markdown="1" class="center">
**God bless us everyone!**
</div>

## Publisher's Note

In the months from September to the beginning of December 1975,
reportedly Helen scribed the section of A Course In Miracles which has
been known up till now as the Clarification of Terms and was considered
as an “appendix.”

For this presentation of Jesus’ masterpiece, it has been placed as
PREFACE and is simply titled THE USE OF TERMS which is consistent with
the original heading of the dictation and retains the style of its
scribing.

If you find our placement of THE USE OF TERMS inappropriate we ask your
forgiveness, yet having been guided in this, we pray that your exposure
to and application of this “required course” allows an understanding for
this seeming liberty.

You will read in the section entitled *The Use Of Terms* a reference
declaring that “SOUL” had been excluded due to the controversial nature
of the term itself. In this edition of A Course In Miracles you will
notice restoration of the “SOUL” to the prominent position it originally
occupied within the lexicon of understanding the Course was initially
given to Helen and Bill to aid them by Jesus Himself. As you read this
masterpiece, you will come to understand that the SOUL is not
controversial to Jesus at all, it is actually *infinitely* abundant,
*eternally* vital and wholly complete. The seeming controversy caused by
the use of the *term* “SOUL” could only be within a mind divided against
itself unaware of its REALITY.

## Use of Terms

This is not a course in theoretical philosophy, nor is it concerned with
precise terminology in connection with origins. It is concerned only
with Atonement, or the correction of perception. The means of the
Atonement is forgiveness. The structure of “individual consciousness” is
essentially irrelevant, because it is a concept representing the
“original error” or the “original sin.”To study the error itself does
not lead to correction, if you are indeed to succeed in overlooking the
error. And it is just this process of overlooking at which the course
aims.

All terms are potentially controversial, and those who seek controversy
will find it. Yet those who seek clarification will find it as well. They
must, however, be willing to overlook controversy, recognizing that it
is a defense against truth in the form of a delaying maneuver.
Theological considerations as such are necessarily controversial, since
they depend on belief and can therefore be accepted or rejected. A
universal theology is impossible, but a universal experience is not only
possible but necessary. It is this experience toward which the course is
directed. Here alone consistency becomes possible, because here alone
uncertainty ends.

This course remains within the ego framework, where it is needed. It is
not concerned with what is beyond all error because it is planned only
to set the direction towards it. Therefore it uses words, which are
symbolic, and cannot express what lies beyond symbols. It is always the
ego that questions because it is only the ego that doubts. The course
merely gives another Answer, once a question has been raised. However,
this Answer does not attempt to resort to inventiveness or
ingenuity. These are attributes of the ego. *The course is simple*. It
has one function and one goal. Only in that does it remain wholly
consistent because only that can *be* consistent.

The ego will demand many answers this course does not give. It does not
recognize as questions the mere form of a question to which an answer is
impossible. The ego may ask,“How did the impossible occur?”,“to what did
the impossible happen?”, and may ask in many forms. Yet there is no
answer; only an experience. Seek only this, and do not let theology
delay you.

You will notice that the emphasis on structural issues in the course is
brief and early. Afterwards and soon it drops away to make way for the
central teaching. Since you have asked for clarification, however, these
are some of the terms that are used:

The term “mind” is used to represent the activating agent of spirit,
supplying its creative energy. When the term is capitalized it refers to
God or Christ (i. e. the Mind of God or the Mind of Christ).

Spirit is the Thought of God Which He created like Himself. The unified
Spirit is God’s one Son, or Christ. In this world, because the mind is
split, the Sons of God appear to be separate. Nor do their minds seem to
be joined. In this illusory state the concept of an “individual mind”
seems to be meaningful. It is therefore described in the course *as if*
it has two parts; spirit and ego. Spirit is the part that is still in
contact with God through the Holy Spirit, Who abides in this part but
sees the other part as well. The term “soul” is not used except in
direct Biblical quotations because of its highly controversial nature.
It would, however, be an equivalent of “spirit,” with the understanding
that being of God it is eternal and was never born.

The other part of the mind is entirely illusory and makes only
illusions. Spirit retains the potential for creating, but its Will which
is God’s, seems to be imprisoned while the mind is not unified. Creation
continues unabated because that is the Will of God. This Will is always
unified, and therefore has no meaning in this world. It has no opposite
and no degrees.

The mind can be right or wrong, depending on the voice to which it
listens.“Right-mindedness” listens to the Holy Spirit, forgives the
world, and through Christ’s vision sees the real world in its place. This
is the final vision, the last perception, the condition in which God
takes the final step Himself. Here time and illusions end together.
“Wrong-mindedness” listens to the ego and makes illusions; perceiving
sin and justifying anger, and seeing guilt, disease and death as real.
Both this world and the real world are illusions, because
right-mindedness merely overlooks, or forgives what never happened.
Therefore it is not the “One-mindedness” of the Christ Mind,Whose Will
is one with God’s.

In this world the only remaining freedom is the freedom of choice;
always between two choices or two voices. Will is not involved in
perception at any level and has nothing to do with choice. Consciousness
is the receptive mechanism, receiving messages from above or below; from
the Holy Spirit or the ego. Consciousness has levels and awareness can
shift quite dramatically, but it cannot transcend the perceptual realm.
At its highest it becomes aware of the real world, and can be trained to
do so increasingly. Yet the very fact that it has levels and can be
trained demonstrates that consciousness cannot reach knowledge.

Illusions will not last. Their death is sure, and this alone is certain
in their world. It is the ego’s world because of this. What is the ego?
But a dream of what you really are. A thought you are apart from your
Creator and a wish to be what He created not. It is a thing of madness,
not reality at all. A name for namelessness is all it is. A symbol of
impossibility; a choice for options that do not exist. We call it that
to help us understand that it is nothing but an ancient thought that
what is made has immortality. But what could come of this except a dream
which like all dreams could only die?

What is the ego? Nothingness, but in a form that seems like something.
In a world of form the ego cannot be denied, for it alone seems real.
How could God’s Son as He created him abide in form or in a world of
form?  Who asks you to define the ego and explain how it arose can be
but he who thinks it real, and seeks by definition to ensure that its
illusive nature is concealed behind the words that seem to make it
so. There is no definition for a lie that serves to make it true. Nor can
there be a truth that lies conceal effectively.

The ego’s unreality is not denied by words nor is its meaning clear
because its nature seems to have a form. Who can define the undefinable?
And yet there is an answer even here. We cannot really make a definition
for what the ego is, but we *can* say what it is not. And this is shown
to us with perfect clarity. It is from this that we deduce all that the
ego is. Look at its opposite and you can see the only answer that is
meaningful.

The ego’s opposite in every way, – in origin, effect and consequence –
we call a miracle. And here we find all that is not the ego in the
world. Here is the ego’s opposite and here alone we look on what the ego
was. For here we see all that it seemed to do, and cause and its effects
must still be one. Where there was darkness now we see the light. What
was the ego? What the darkness was. Where was the ego? Where the
darkness was.

What is it now and where can it be found? Nothing and nowhere. Now the
light has come. Its opposite has gone without a trace. Where evil was
there now is holiness. What is the ego? What the evil was. Where is the
ego? In an evil dream that but seemed real while you were dreaming it.
Where there was crucifixion stands God’s Son. What is the ego? Who has
need to ask? Where is the ego? Who has need to seek for an illusion now
the dreams are gone?

What is a miracle? A dream as well. But look at all the aspects of
*this* dream, and you will never question any more. Look at the kindly
world you see stretch forth before you as you walk in gentleness. Look
at the helpers all along the way you travel, happy in the hope of Heaven
and the certainty of peace. And look an instant, too, on what you left
behind at last and finally passed by. This was the ego – all the cruel
hate, the need for vengeance and the cries of pain, the fear of dying
and the urge to kill, the brotherless illusion and the self that seemed
alone in all the universe.

This terrible mistake about yourself the miracle corrects as gently as a
loving mother sings her child to rest. Is not a song like this what you
would hear? Would it not answer all you thought to ask, and even make
the question meaningless? Your questions have no answer, being made to
still God’s Voice,Which asks of everyone one question only: “Are you
ready yet to help Me save the world?” Ask this instead of what the ego
is, and you will see a sudden brightness cover up the world the ego
made. No miracle is now withheld from anyone. The world is saved from
what you thought it was. And what it is, is wholly uncondemned and
wholly pure.

The miracle forgives; the ego damns. Neither need be defined except by
this. Yet could a definition be more sure, or more in line with what
salvation asks? Problem and answer lie together here, and having met at
last the choice is clear. Who chooses hell when it is recognized? And
who would not go on a little while when it is given him to understand
the way is short and Heaven is his goal?

Forgiveness is for God and toward God but not of Him. It is impossible
to think of anything He created that could need forgiveness.
Forgiveness, then, is an illusion, but because of its purpose, which is
the Holy Spirit’s, it has one difference. Unlike all other illusions, it
leads away from error and not towards it. Forgiveness might be called a
kind of happy fiction; a way in which the unknowing can bridge the gap
between their perception and the truth. They cannot go directly from
perception to knowledge because they do not think it is their will to do
so. This makes God appear to be an enemy instead of what He really is.
And it is just this insane perception that makes them unwilling merely
to rise up and to return to Him in peace.

And so they need an illusion of Help because they are helpless; a
Thought of peace because they are in conflict. God knows what His Son
needs before he asks. He is not at all concerned with form, but having
given the content it is His Will that it be understood. And that
suffices. The form adapts itself to need; the content is unchanging, as
eternal as its Creator.

The Face of Christ has to be seen before the memory of God can return.
The reason is obvious. Seeing the Face of Christ is perception. No one
can look on knowledge. But the Face of Christ is the great symbol of
forgiveness. It is salvation. It is the symbol of the real world. Whoever
looks on this no longer sees the world. He is as near to Heaven as
possible outside the gate. Yet from this gate it is no more than just a
step inside. It is the final step. And this we leave to God. It is a
symbol, too, but as the symbol of His Will alone it cannot be divided.
And so the Unity that it reflects becomes His Will. It is the only thing
still in the world in part, and yet the bridge to Heaven.

God’s Will is all there is. We can but go from nothingness to
everything; from hell to Heaven. Is this a journey? No, not in truth,
for truth goes nowhere. But illusions shift from place to place; from
time to time. The final step is also but a shift. As a perception it is
partly unreal. And yet this part will vanish. What remains is peace
eternal and the Will of God. There are no wishes now, for wishes change.
Even the wished-for can become unwelcome. That must be so, because the
ego cannot be at peace. But Will is constant, as the gift of God. And
what He gives is always like Himself.

This is the purpose of the Face of Christ. It is the gift of God to save
His Son. But look on this and you have been forgiven. How lovely does
the world become in just that single instant when you see the truth
about yourself reflected there. Now you are sinless and behold your
sinlessness. Now you are holy and perceive it so. And now the mind
returns to its Creator; the joining of the Father and the Son; the Unity
of unities that stands behind all joining but still beyond them all. God
is not seen but only understood. His Son is not attacked but recognized.

The world you see is an illusion of a world. God did not create it, for
what He creates must be eternal as Himself. Yet there is nothing in the
world you see that will endure forever. Some things will last in time a
little while longer than others. But the time will come when all things
visible will have an end. The body’s eyes are therefore not the means by
which the real world can be seen, for the illusions that they look upon
must lead to more illusions (of reality). And so they do. For everything
they see not only will not last but lends itself to thoughts of sin and
guilt. While everything that God created is forever without sin and
therefore is forever without guilt.

Knowledge is not the remedy for false perception since, being another
level, they can never meet. The one correction possible for false
perception must be true perception. It will not endure. But for the time
it lasts, it comes to heal. For true perception is a remedy with many
names. Forgiveness, salvation, Atonement, true perception, all are one.
They are as one beginning with the end to lead to Oneness far beyond
themselves. True perception is the means by which the world is saved
from sin, for sin does not exist. And it is this that true perception
sees.

The world stands like a block before Christ’s face. But true perception
looks on it as nothing more than just a fragile veil, so easily
dispelled that it can last no longer than an instant. It is seen at last
for only what it is. And now it cannot fail to disappear, for now there
is an empty place made clean and ready. Where destruction was perceived
the face of Christ appears, and in that instant is the world forgot,
with time forever ended as the world spins into nothingness from where
it came.

A world forgiven cannot last. It was the home of bodies. But forgiveness
looks past bodies. This is its holiness; this is how it heals. The world
of bodies is the world of sin, for only if there is a body is sin
possible. From sin comes guilt as surely as forgiveness takes all guilt
away. And once all guilt is gone what more remains to keep a separated
world in place? For place has gone as well along with time. Only the
body makes the world seem real, for being separate it could not remain
where separation is impossible. Forgiveness proves it is impossible
because it sees it not. And what you then will overlook will not be
understandable to you, just as its opposite was once your certainty;
just as its presence once had been your certainty.

This is the shift that true perception brings: what was projected out is
seen within and there forgiveness lets it disappear. For there the altar
to the Son is set, and there his Father is remembered. Here are all
illusions brought to truth and laid upon the altar. What is seen outside
must lie beyond forgiveness, for it seems to be forever sinful. Where is
hope while sin is seen as outside? What remedy can guilt expect? But
seen within your mind, guilt and forgiveness for an instant lie
together, side by side, upon one altar. There at last are sickness and
its single remedy joined in one healing brightness. God has come to
claim His Own. Forgiveness is complete.

And now God’s knowledge, changeless, certain, pure and wholly
understandable, enters its Kingdom. Gone is perception, false and true
alike. Gone is forgiveness, for its task is done. And gone are bodies in
the blazing light upon the altar to the Son of God. God knows it is His
Own as it is his. And here They join, for here the face of Christ has
shone away time’s final instant, and now is the last perception of the
world without a purpose and without a cause. For where God’s memory has
come at last there is no journey, no belief in sin, no walls, no bodies,
and the grim appeal of guilt and death is there snuffed out forever.

O my brothers, if you only knew the peace that will envelop you and hold
you safe and pure and lovely in the Mind of God, you could but rush to
meet Him where His altar is. Hallowed your Name and His, for they are
joined here in this holy place. Here He leans down to lift you back to
Him, out of illusions into holiness; out of the world and into eternity;
out of all fear and given back to Love.

There is no need for help to enter Heaven, for you never left. But there
is need for help beyond yourself as you (are) circumscribed by false
beliefs of your Identity,Which God alone established in reality. Helpers
are given you in many forms, although upon the altar They are one.
Beyond each one, there is a Thought of God, and this will never change.
But they have names which differ for a time, for time needs symbols,
being itself unreal. Their names are legion, but we will not go beyond
the names the course itself employs. God does not help because He knows
no need. But He creates all Helpers of His Son while he believes his
fantasies are true. Thank God for them, for they will lead you home.

The Name of Jesus is the name of one who was a man, but saw the face of
Christ in all his brothers and remembered God. So he became identified
with Christ, a man no longer but at one with God. The man was an
illusion, for he seemed to be a separate being, walking by himself,
within a body that appeared to hold his self from Self, as all illusions
do. Yet who can save unless he sees illusions, and then identifies them
as what they are? Jesus remains a Savior because he saw the false
without accepting it as true. And Christ needed his form that He might
appear to men and save them from their own illusions.

In his complete identification with the Christ, the perfect Son of God,
His one creation and His happiness, forever like Himself and one with
Him — Jesus became what all of us must be. He led the way for us to follow
him. He leads us back to God because he saw the road before him, and he
followed it. He made a clean distinction, still obscure to us, between
the false and true. He offered us all a final demonstration it is
impossible to kill God’s Son; nor can his life in any way be changed by
sin and evil, malice, fear or death. And therefore all your sins have
been forgiven you because they carried no effects at all. And so they
were but dreams. Arise with him who showed you this because you owe him
this who shared your dreams that they might be dispelled. And shares
them still to be at one with you.

Is he the Christ? O yes, along with you. His little life on earth was
not enough to teach the mighty lesson that he learned for all of us. He
will remain with you to lead you from the hell you made to God. And when
you join your will with his your sight will be his vision for the eyes
of Christ are shared. Walking with him is just as natural as walking
with a brother whom you knew since you were born, for such indeed he is.
Some bitter idols have been made of him who would be only brother to the
world. Forgive him your illusions and behold how dear a brother he would
be to you. For he will set your mind at rest at last and carry it with
you unto your God.

Is he God’s only Helper? No indeed. For Christ takes many forms with
different names until their oneness can be recognized. But Jesus is for
you the bearer of Christ’s single message of the Love of God. You need no
other. It is possible to read his words and benefit from them without
accepting him into your life. Yet he would help you yet a little more if
you will share your pains and joys with him, and leave them both to find
the peace of God. Yet still it is his lesson most of all that he would
have you learn, and it is this:

> “There is no death because the Son of God is like his Father. Nothing
> you can do can change Eternal Love. Forget your dreams of sin and
> guilt, and come with me instead to share the resurrection of God’s
> Son. And bring with you all those whom He has sent to you to care for
> as I care for you.”

Jesus is the manifestation of the Holy Spirit, Whom he called down upon
the earth after he ascended into Heaven, or became completely identified
with the Christ, the Son of God as He created him. The Holy Spirit,
being a creation of the One Creator, creating with him and in His
likeness or Spirit, is eternal and has never changed. He was “called
down upon the earth” in the sense that it was now possible to accept Him
and to hear His Voice. His is the Voice for God, and has therefore taken
form. This form is not his reality Which God alone knows along with
Christ, His real Son,Who is part of Him.

The Holy Spirit is described throughout the course as giving us the
answer to the separation and bringing the plan of the Atonement to us,
establishing our particular part in it, and showing us exactly what it
is. He has established Jesus as the leader in carrying out this plan,
since he was the first to complete his own part perfectly. All power in
Heaven and earth is therefore given him, and he will share it with you
when you have completed yours. The Atonement principle was given to the
Holy Spirit long before Jesus set it in motion.

The Holy Spirit is described as the remaining communication link between
God and His separated sons. In order to fulfill this special function
the Holy Spirit has assumed a dual function; He knows because He is part
of God. He perceives because He was sent to save humanity. He is the
great correction principle; the bringer of true perception, the inherent
power of the vision of Christ. He is the light in which the forgiven
world is perceived; in which the face of Christ alone is seen. He never
forgets the Creator or His Creation. He never forgets the Son of God. He
never forgets you. And He brings the Love of your Father to you in an
eternal shining that will never be obliterated because God has put it
there.

The Holy Spirit abides in the part of your mind that is part of the
Christ Mind. He represents your Self and your Creator, Who are One. He
speaks for God and also for you, being joined with both. And therefore
it is He Who proves them one. He seems to be a Voice, for in that form
He speaks God’s Word to you. He seems to be a Guide through a far
country, for you need that form of help. He seems to be whatever meets
the needs you think you have. But He is not deceived when you perceive
your self entrapped in needs you do not have. It is from these He would
deliver you. It is from these that He would make you safe.

You are His manifestation in this world. Your Brother calls to you to be
His Voice along with him. Alone he cannot be the Helper of God’s Son,
for he alone is functionless. But joined with you he is the shining
savior of the world, whose part in its redemption you have made
complete. He offers thanks to you as well as him, for you arose with him
when he began to save the world. And you will be with him when time is
over, and no trace remains of dreams of spite in which you dance to
death’s thin melody. For in its place the hymn to God is heard a little
while. And then the voice is gone, no longer to take form but to return
to the eternal formlessness of God.

