---
chapter: Nineteen
ctitle: Beyond the Body
title: "Obstacles to Peace: II. The Belief the Body is Valuable for What it Offers"
ref: T19.6
---

We said that peace must first surmount the obstacle of your desire to
get rid of it. Where the attraction of guilt holds sway, peace is not
WANTED. The second obstacle that peace must flow across, and closely
related to the first, is the belief that the body is valuable for what
it offers. For here is the attraction of guilt made manifest in the
body, and SEEN in it.

This the value that you think peace would rob you of. This is what you
believe that it would dispossess, and leave you homeless. And it is this
for which you would deny a home to peace. This “sacrifice” you feel to
be too great to make, too much to ask of you.

Is it a sacrifice, or a release? What has the body really given you that
justifies your strange belief that in it lies salvation? Do you not see
that this is the belief in death? Here is the focus of the perception of
Atonement as murder. Here is the source of the idea that love is fear.
The Holy Spirit’s messengers are sent far beyond the body, calling the
mind to join in holy communion and be at peace. Such is the message that
I gave them for you.

It is only the messengers of fear that see the body, for they look for
what can suffer. Is it a sacrifice to be REMOVED from what can suffer?
The Holy Spirit does not demand you sacrifice the hope of the body’s
pleasure; it HAS no hope of pleasure. But neither can it bring you fear
of pain. Pain is the only “sacrifice” the Holy Spirit
asks, and this He WOULD remove.

Peace is extended from you only to the eternal, and it reaches out from
the eternal in YOU. It flows across all else. The second obstacle is no
more solid than the first. For you will neither to get rid of peace NOR
limit it. What are these obstacles which you would interpose between
peace and its going forth but barriers you place between your will and
its accomplishment? You WANT communion, not the feast of fear. You WANT
salvation, not the pain of guilt. And you want your Father, NOT a little
mound of clay, to be your home. In your holy relationship is your
Father’s Son. He has not lost communion with Him, nor with himself. When
you agreed to join each other, you acknowledged this is so. This has no
cost, but it has RELEASE from cost.

You have paid very dearly for your illusions, and nothing you have paid
for brought you peace. Are you not GLAD that Heaven cannot be
sacrificed, and sacrifice cannot be asked of you? There IS no obstacle
which you can place before our union, for in your holy relationship I am
there already. We will surmount all obstacles together, for we stand
within the gates, and not outside. How easily the gates are opened from
within, to let peace through to bless the tired world! Can it be
difficult for us to walk past barriers together, when you have joined
the limitless? The end of guilt is in your hands to give. Would you stop
now to look for guilt in each other?

Let me be to you the symbol of the END of guilt, and look upon each
other as you would look on me. Forgive me all the sins you think the Son
of God committed. And in the light of your forgiveness, he will remember
who he is, and forget what never was. I ask for your forgiveness, for if
you are guilty, so must I be. But if I surmounted guilt and overcame the
world, YOU were with me. Would you see in me the symbol of guilt, or of
the END of guilt, remembering that what I signify to you you see within
YOURSELF?

From your holy relationship truth proclaims the truth, and love looks on
itself. Salvation flows from deep within the home you offered to my
Father and to me. And we are there together, in the quiet communion in
which the Father and the Son are joined. Oh come ye faithful to the holy
union of the Father and Son in you! And keep you not apart from what is
offered you, in gratitude for
giving peace its home in Heaven. Send forth to all the world the joyous
message of the end of guilt, and all the world will answer. Think of
your happiness as everyone offers you witness of the end of sin, and
shows you that its power is gone forever. Where can guilt be, when the
belief in sin is gone? And where is death, when its great advocate is
heard no more?

Forgive me your illusions, and release me from punishment for what I
have not done. So will you learn the freedom that I taught by teaching
freedom to each other, and so releasing me. I am within your holy
relationship, yet you would imprison me behind the obstacles you raise
to freedom, and bar my way to you. Yet it is not possible to keep away
One Who is there already. And in Him it IS possible that our communion,
where we are joined already, will be the focus of the new perception
that will bring light to all the world, contained in YOU.

