---
chapter: Twenty Seven
ctitle: The Body and the Dream*
title: The Fear of Healing
ref: T27.2
---

Is healing frightening? To many, yes. For accusation is a bar to love,
and damaged bodies are accusers. They stand firmly in the way of trust
and peace, proclaiming that the frail can have no trust, and that the
damaged have no grounds for peace. Who has been injured by his brother,
and could love and trust him still? He has attacked, and will attack
again. Protect him not, because your damaged body shows that you must be
protected from him. To forgive may be an act of charity,
but not his due. He may be pitied for his guilt, but not exonerated. And
if you forgive him his transgressions, you but add to all the guilt that
he has really earned.

The unhealed CANNOT pardon. For they are the witnesses that pardon is
unfair. They would retain the consequences of the guilt they
overlook. Yet no-one can forgive a sin which he believes is real. And
what has consequences MUST be real because what it has done is there to
see. Forgiveness is not pity, which but seeks to pardon what it knows to
be the truth. Good cannot BE returned for evil, for forgiveness does not
first establish sin and THEN forgive it. Who can say and mean, “My
brother, you have injured me, and yet, because I am the better of the
two, I pardon you my hurt.” His pardon and your hurt cannot exist
together. One denies the other, and MUST make it false.

To witness sin and yet forgive it is a paradox which reason cannot see.
For it maintains what has been done to you deserves no pardon. And by
giving it, you grant your brother mercy, but retain the proof he is not
really innocent. The sick remain accusers. They cannot forgive their
brothers and themselves as well. For no-one in whom true forgiveness
reigns can suffer. He holds not the proof of sin before his brother’s
eyes. And thus he must have overlooked it, and removed it from his own.
Forgiveness cannot be for one and not the other. Who forgives IS healed.
And in his healing lies the proof that he has truly pardoned, and
retains no trace of condemnation that he still would hold against
himself or any living thing.

Forgiveness is not real UNLESS it brings a healing to your brother AND
yourself. You must attest his sins had no effect on you, to demonstrate
they were not real. How else could he be guiltless? And how could his
innocence be justified unless his sins have no effect to warrant guilt?
Sins are beyond forgiveness just because they would entail effects which
cannot be undone and overlooked entirely. In their undoing lies the
proof that they were merely errors. LET yourself be healed, that you may
be forgiving, offering salvation to your brother and yourself. A broken
body shows the mind has not been healed. A miracle of healing proves
that separation is without effect. What you would prove to him you will
believe. The power of witness COMES from your belief. And everything you
say or do or think but testifies to what you teach to him.

Your body can be means to teach that it has never suffered pain because
of him. And in its healing can it offer him mute testimony of his
innocence. It is this testimony which can speak with power greater than
a thousand tongues. For here is his forgiveness PROVED to him. A miracle
can offer nothing less to him than it has given unto you. So does your
healing show your mind is healed, and has forgiven what he did not do.
And so is he convinced his innocence was never lost, and healed along
with you.

Thus does the miracle undo all things the world attests can never BE
undone. And hopelessness and death must disappear before the ancient
clarion call of life. This call has power far beyond the weak and
miserable cry of death and guilt. The ancient calling of the Father to
His Son, and of the Son unto his own, will yet be the last trumpet that
the world will ever hear. Brother, there IS no death. And this you learn
when you but wish to show your brother that you had no hurt of him. He
thinks your blood is on his hands, and so he stands condemned. Yet it is
given you to show him, by your healing, that his guilt is but the fabric
of a senseless dream.

How just are miracles! For they bestow an equal gift of full deliverance
from guilt upon your brother and yourself. Your healing saves him pain as
well as you, and you are healed because you wished him well. This is the
law the miracle obeys; that healing sees no specialness at all. It does
not come from pity, but from love. And love would prove all suffering is
but a vain imagining, a foolish wish, with no effects. Your health is a
result of your desire to see your brother with no blood upon his hands,
nor guilt upon his heart made heavy with the proof of sin. And what you
wish IS given you to see.

The “cost” of your serenity is his. This is the “price” the Holy Spirit
and the world interpret differently. The world perceives it as a
statement of the “fact” that your salvation SACRIFICES his. The Holy
Spirit KNOWS your healing is the witness unto his, and cannot be apart
from his at all. As long as he consents to suffer, you will be
unhealed. Yet you can show him that his suffering is purposeless and
wholly without cause. Show him your healing, and he will consent no more
to suffer. For his innocence has been established in your sight and his.
And laughter will replace your sighs, because God’s Son
remembered that he IS God’s Son.

Who, then, fears healing? Only those to whom their brother’s sacrifice
and pain are seen to represent their own serenity. Their helplessness
and weakness represents the grounds on which they JUSTIFY his pain. The
constant sting of guilt he suffers serves to prove that he is slave, but
they are free. The constant pain they suffer demonstrates that they are
free BECAUSE they hold him bound. And sickness is desired to prevent a
shift of balance in the sacrifice. How could the Holy Spirit be deterred
an instant, even less, to reason with an argument for sickness such as
this? And need your healing be delayed because you pause to listen to
insanity?

Consider how this self perception must extend, and do not overlook the
fact that every thought extends because that is its purpose, being what
it really IS. From an idea of self as two, there comes a necessary view
of function split between the two. And what you would correct is only
half the error, which you think is all of it. Your brother’s sins become
the central target for correction, lest your errors and his own be seen
as one. Yours are mistakes, but his are sins, and not the same as yours.
His merit punishment, while yours, in fairness, should be overlooked.

In this interpretation of correction, your own mistakes you will not
even see. The focus of correction has been placed outside yourself, on
one who cannot be a part of you while this perception lasts. What is
condemned can never be returned to its accuser, who hated it, and hates
it still. This is your brother, focus of your hate, unworthy to be part
of you, and thus outside yourself; the other half, which is denied. And
only what is left without his presence is perceived as all of you. To
this remaining half the Holy Spirit must represent the other half until
you recognize it IS the other half. And this He does by giving both of
you a function that is one, not different.

Correction is the function given BOTH, but neither one alone. And when
it is fulfilled as SHARED, it MUST correct mistakes in both of you. It
cannot leave mistakes in one unhealed, and set the other free. That is
divided purpose, which cannot be shared, and so it cannot be the
function which the Holy Spirit sees as His. And you can rest assured
that He will not fulfill a function He cannot understand and recognize
as His. For only thus can he keep yours
preserved intact, despite your separate views of what your function is.
If He upheld divided function, you were lost indeed. His inability to
see His goal divided and distinct for each of you preserves your Self
from being made aware of any function other than Its Own. And thus is
healing given both of you.

Correction must be left to One Who knows correction and forgiveness are
the same. With half a mind, this is not understood. Leave, then,
correction to the Mind That IS united, functioning as one because It is
not split in purpose, and conceives a single function as Its ONLY one.
Here is the function given It conceived to be Its Own, and not apart
from that Its Giver keeps BECAUSE it has been shared. In His acceptance
of this function lies the means whereby your mind is unified. His single
purpose unifies the halves of you which you perceive as separate. And
each forgives the other, that he may accept his other half as part of
him.

