---
chapter: Twenty Seven
ctitle: The Body and the Dream*
title: The Healing Example
ref: T27.5
---

The only way to heal is to be healed. The miracle extends without your
help, but you ARE needed that it can begin. Accept the miracle of
healing, and it will go forth because of what it IS. It is its nature to
extend itself the instant it is born. And it is born the instant it is
offered and RECEIVED. No-one can ask another to be healed. But he can
let HIMSELF be healed, and thus offer the other what he has received. Who
can bestow upon another what he does not have? And who can share what he
denies himself? The Holy Spirit speaks to YOU. He does not speak to
someone else. Yet by your listening, His Voice extends because you have
ACCEPTED what He says.

Health is the witness unto health. As long as it is unattested, it
remains without conviction. Only when demonstrated has it been proved,
and MUST compel belief. No-one is healed through double messages. If you
wish only to be healed, you heal. Your SINGLE purpose makes this
possible. But if you are afraid of healing, then it cannot come through
you. The only thing that is required for a healing is a lack of fear.
The fearful are not healed, and cannot heal. This does not mean the
conflict must be gone forever from your mind. For if it were, there were
no need for healing then. But it DOES mean, if only for an instant, you
love without attack. An instant is sufficient. Miracles wait not on
time.

The holy instant is the miracle’s abiding-place. From there, each
one is born into this world as witness to a state of mind which has
transcended conflict, and has reached to peace. It carries comfort from
the place of peace into the battle-ground, and demonstrates that war has
no effects. For all the hurt that war has sought to bring, the broken
bodies and the shattered limbs, the screaming dying and the silent dead,
are gently lifted up and comforted. There IS no sadness where a miracle
has come to heal. And nothing more than just ONE instant of your love
without attack is necessary, that all this occur. In that one instant
are you healed, and in that single instant is all healing done.

What stands apart from you, when you accept the blessing that the holy
instant brings? Be not afraid of blessing, for the One Who blesses you
loves all the world, and leaves nothing within the world that could be
feared. But if you shrink from blessing, will the world indeed seem
fearful, for you have withheld its peace and comfort, leaving it to
die. Would not a world so bitterly bereft be looked on as a condemnation
by the one who could have saved it, but stepped back because he was
afraid of being healed? The eyes of all the dying bring reproach, and
suffering whispers, “What is there to fear?” Consider well its question.
It is asked of you on your behalf. A dying world asks only that you rest
an instant from attack upon yourself, that it be healed.

Come to the holy instant and be healed, for nothing that is there
received is left behind, on your returning to the world. And being
blessed, you will bring blessing. Life is given you to give the dying
world. And suffering eyes no longer will accuse, but shine in thanks to
you who blessing gave. The holy instant’s radiance will light your eyes,
and give them sight to see beyond all suffering, and see Christ’s face
instead. Healing REPLACES suffering. Who looks on one cannot perceive
the other, for they cannot both be there. And what you see the world
will witness, and will witness TO.

Thus is your healing everything the world requires, that it may be
healed. It needs ONE lesson which has perfectly been learned. And then,
when you forget it, will the world remind you gently of what you have
taught. No reinforcement will its thanks withhold from you who let
yourself be healed that it might live. It will call forth its witnesses
to show the face of Christ to you who brought the
sight to them, by which they witnessed it. The world of accusation is
replaced by one in which all eyes look lovingly upon the Friend who
brought them their release. And happily your brother will perceive the
many friends he thought were enemies.

Problems are not specific, but they take specific forms, and these
specific shapes make up the world. And no-one understands the nature of
his problem. If he did, it would be there no more for him to see. Its
very nature is that it is NOT. And thus, while he perceives it, he can
NOT perceive it as it is. But healing is apparent in specific instances,
and generalizes to include them all. This is because they really are the
same, despite their different forms. All learning aims at transfer,
which becomes complete within two situations which are seen as one, for
ONLY common elements are there. Yet this can only be attained by One Who
does not see the differences you see. The total transfer of your
learning is not made by you. But that it has been made in spite of all
the differences you see, convinces you that they could not be real.

Your healing will extend, and will be brought to problems that you
thought were not your own. And it will also be apparent that your many
different problems will be solved, as any one of them has been escaped.
It cannot be their differences which made this possible, for learning
does not jump from situations to their opposites, and bring the same
results. All healing must proceed in lawful manner, in accord with laws
which have been properly perceived, but never violated. Fear you not the
way that you perceive them. You are wrong, but there is One within you
Who is RIGHT.

Leave, then, the transfer of your learning to the One Who really
understands its laws, and Who will guarantee that they remain unviolated
and unlimited. Your part is merely to apply what He has taught you to
YOURSELF, and He will do the rest. And thus the power of your learning
will be proved to you by all the many different witnesses it finds. Your
brother first among them will be seen, but thousands stand behind him,
and beyond each one there are a thousand more. Each one may seem to have
a problem which is different from the rest. Yet they are solved
together. And their common answer shows the questions could not have
been separate.

Peace be to you to whom is healing offered. And you will learn
that peace is given you when you accept the healing for yourself. Its
total value need not be appraised by you to let you understand that you
have benefited from it. What occurred within the instant which love
entered in without attack will stay with you forever. Your healing will
be one of its effects, as will your brother’s. Everywhere you go will
you behold its multiplied effects. Yet all the witnesses that you behold
will be far less than all there really are. Infinity cannot be
understood by merely counting up its separate parts. God thanks you for
your healing, for He knows it is a gift of love unto His Son, and
therefore is it given unto Him.

