---
title: 31Forget Not&hellip;
---

Forget not once this journey is begun the end is certain. Doubt along
the way will come and go and go to come again. Yet is the ending sure. No
one can fail to do what God appointed him to do. When you forget,
remember that you walk with Him and with His Word upon your heart. Who
could despair when Hope like this is his? Illusions of despair may seem
to come, but learn how not to be deceived by them. Behind each one there
is reality and there is God. Why would you wait for this, and trade it
for illusions when His Love is but an instant farther on the road where
all illusions end? The end *is* sure, and guaranteed by God. Who stands
before a lifeless image when a step away the Holy of the Holies opens up
an ancient door that leads beyond the world? You *are* a stranger here.
But you belong to Him Who loves you as He loves Himself. Ask but my help
to roll the stone away and it is done according to His Will.

We *have* begun the journey. Long ago the end was written in the stars,
and set into the Heavens with a shining ray that held it safe within
eternity and through all time as well. And holds it still; unchanged,
unchanging and unchangeable. Be not afraid. We only start again an
ancient journey long ago begun that but seems new. We have begun again
upon a road we travelled on before and lost our way a little while. And
now we try again. Our new beginning has the certainty the journey lacked
till now. Look up and see His Word among the stars where He has set your
name along with His. Look up and find your certain destiny the world
would hide but God would have you see.

Let us wait here in silence, and kneel down an instant in our gratitude
to Him Who called to us and helped us hear His Call. And then let us
arise and go in faith along the way to Him. Now we are sure we do not
walk alone. For God is here, and with Him all our brothers. Now we know
that we will never lose the way again. The song begins again which had
been stopped (stilled) only an instant, though it seemed to be unsung
forever. What is here begun will grow in life and strength and hope,
until the world is still an instant, and forgets all that the dream of
sin had made of it.

Let us go out to meet the newborn world, knowing that Christ has been
reborn in it and that the holiness of this rebirth will last forever. We
had lost our way, but He has found it for us. Let us come and bid Him
welcome Who returns to us to celebrate salvation and the end of all we
thought we made. The morning (rising) star of this new day looks on a
different world where God is welcomed and His Son with Him. We who
complete Him offer thanks to Him, as He gives thanks to us. The Son is
still, and in the quiet God has given him enters his home and is at
peace at last.

