---
chapter: Twenty One
ctitle: The Inner Picture
title: The Imagined World
ref: T21.1
---

Never forget the world the sightless “see” must be imagined, for what it
really looks like is unknown to them. They must infer what could be seen
from evidence forever indirect; and reconstruct their inferences as they
stumble and fall because of what they did not
recognize, or walk unharmed through open doorways which they thought
were closed. And so it is with you. You do not see. Your cues for
inference are wrong, and so you stumble and fall down upon the stones
you did not recognize, but fail to be aware you CAN go through the doors
you thought were closed, but which stand open before unseeing eyes,
waiting to welcome you.

How foolish it is to attempt to judge what could be seen instead. It is
not necessary to imagine what the world must look like. It must be seen,
before you recognize it for what it is. You can be shown which doors are
open, and you can see where safety lies; and which way leads to
darkness, which to light. Judgement will ALWAYS give you false
directions, but vision SHOWS you where to go. Why should you guess?

There is no need to learn through pain. And gentle lessons are acquired
joyously, and are remembered gladly. What gives you happiness you WANT
to learn and not forget. It is not this you would deny. YOUR question is
whether the means by which this course is learned will BRING to you the
joy it promises. If you believed it would, the learning of it would be
no problem. You are not happy learners yet because you still remain
uncertain that vision gives you MORE than judgement does, and you have
learned that BOTH you cannot have.

The blind become accustomed to their world by their adjustments to it.
They think they know their way about in it. They learned it, not through
joyous lessons, but through the stern necessity of limits they believed
they could not overcome. And still believing this, they hold those
lessons dear, and cling to them BECAUSE they cannot see. They do not
understand the lessons KEEP them blind. This they do not believe. And so
they keep the world they learned to “see” in their imagination,
believing that their choice is that or nothing. They hate the world they
learned through pain. And everything they think is in it serves to
remind them that they are incomplete and bitterly deprived.

Thus they DEFINE their life and where they live, adjusting to it as they
think they must, afraid to lose the little that they have. And so it is
with all who see the body as all they have and all their brothers have.
They try to reach each other, and they fail, and fail again. And
they adjust to loneliness, believing that to keep the body is to save
the little that they have. Listen, and try to think if you remember what
we will speak of now.

Listen, — perhaps you catch a hint of an ancient state not quite
forgotten; dim, perhaps, and yet not altogether unfamiliar, like a song
whose name is long forgotten, and the circumstances in which you heard
completely unremembered. Not the whole song has stayed with you, but
just a little whisp of melody, attached not to a person or a place or
anything particular. But you remember, from just this little part, how
lovely was the song, how wonderful the setting where you heard it, and
how you loved those who were there and listened with you.

The notes are nothing. Yet you have kept them with you, not for
themselves, but as a soft reminder of what would make you weep if you
remembered how dear it was to you. You could remember, yet you are
afraid, believing you would lose the world you learned since then. And
yet you know that nothing in the world you learned is half so dear as
this. Listen, and see if you remember an ancient song you knew so long
ago, and held more dear than any melody you taught yourself to cherish
since.

Beyond the body, beyond the sun and stars, past everything you see and
yet somehow familiar, is an arc of golden light that stretches as you
look into a great and shining circle. And all the circle fills with
light before your eyes. The edges of the circle disappear, and what is
in it is no longer contained at all. The light expands and covers
everything, extending to infinity forever shining, and with no break or
limit anywhere. Within it everything is joined in perfect continuity.
Nor is it possible to imagine that anything could be outside, for there
is nowhere that this light is not.

This is the vision of the Son of God, whom you know well. Here is the
sight of him who knows his Father. Here is the memory of what you are; a
part of this, with all of it within, and joined to all as surely as all
is joined in you. Accept the vision which can show you THIS, and not the
body. You know the ancient song, and know it well. Nothing will ever be
as dear to you as is this ancient hymn the Son of God sings to his
Father still.

And now the blind can see, for that same song they sing in honor
of their Creator gives praise to them as well. The blindness which they
made will not withstand the memory of this song. And they will look upon
the vision of the Son of God, remembering who he is they sing of. What
is a miracle but this remembering? And who is there in whom this memory
lies not? The light in one awakens it in all. And when you see it in
each other, you ARE remembering for everyone.

