---
chapter: Twenty One
ctitle: The Inner Picture
title: Reason and Correction
ref: T21.6
---

Reason cannot see sin but CAN see errors, and leads to their correction.
It does not value them, but their correction. Reason will also tell you
when you think you sin, you call for help. Yet if you will not accept the
help you call for, you will not believe that it is yours to give. And so
you will not give it, thus MAINTAINING the belief. For uncorrected error
of any kind deceives you about the power that is in you to MAKE
correction. If it can correct, and you allow it not to do so, you deny
it to yourself and to your brother. And if he shares this same belief,
you both will think that you are damned. This you could spare him and
YOURSELF. For reason would not make way for correction in you alone.

Correction cannot be accepted or refused by you WITHOUT your brother.
Sin would maintain it can. Yet reason tells you that you cannot see your
brother or yourself as sinful, and still perceive the other innocent.
Who looks upon himself as guilty and sees a sinless world? And who can
see a sinful world and look upon himself apart from it? Sin would
maintain you must be separate. But reason tells you that this must be
wrong. If you are joined, how could it be that you have private
thoughts? And how could thoughts that enter into what but seems like
yours alone have no effect at all on what IS yours? If minds are joined,
this is impossible.

No-one can think but for himself, as God thinks not without His Son.
Only were both in bodies could this be. Nor could one mind think only
for itself unless the body WERE the mind. For only
bodies can be separate, and therefore unreal. The home of madness cannot
be the home of reason. Yet it is easy to leave the home of madness if
you see reason. You do not leave insanity by going somewhere else. You
leave it simply by accepting reason where madness was. Madness and
reason see the same things, but it is certain that they look upon them
differently.

Madness is an attack on reason that drives it out of mind, and takes its
place. Reason does not attack, but takes the place of madness quietly,
replacing madness if it be the will of the insane to listen to it. But
the insane know not their will. For they believe they see the body, and
let their madness tell them it is real. Reason would be incapable of
this. And if you would defend the body against your reason, you will not
understand the body or yourself.

The body does not separate you from your brother, and if you think it
does, you are insane. But madness has a purpose, and believes it also
has the means to make its purpose real. To see the body as a barrier
between what reason tells you MUST be joined must be insane. Nor could
you see it, if you heard the voice of reason. What can there be that
stands between what is continuous? And if there is nothing in between,
how can what enters part be kept away from other parts? Reason would
tell you this. But think what you must recognize, if it be so.

If you choose sin instead of healing, you would condemn the Son of God
to what can never be corrected. You tell him, by your choice, that he is
damned; separate from you and from his Father forever, and without a
hope of safe return. You teach him this, and you will learn of him
EXACTLY what you taught. For you can teach him only that he is as you
would have him, and what you choose he be is but your choice for YOU. Yet
think not this is fearful. That you are joined to him is but a fact, not
an interpretation. How can a fact be fearful unless it disagrees with
what you hold more dear than truth? Reason will tell you that this fact
is your RELEASE. Neither your brother nor yourself can be attacked
alone. But neither can accept a miracle instead WITHOUT the other being
blessed by it, and healed of pain.

Reason, like love, would reassure you, and seeks not to frighten you.
The power to heal the Son of God is given you because he
MUST be one with you. You ARE responsible for how he sees himself. And
reason tells you it is given you to change his whole mind, which is one
with you, in just an instant. And any instant serves to bring complete
correction of his errors, and make him whole. The instant that you choose
to let YOURSELF be healed, in that same instant is his whole salvation
seen as complete with yours. Reason is given you to understand that this
is so. For reason, kind as is the purpose for which it is the means,
leads steadily away from madness toward the goal of truth. And here you
will lay down the burden of denying truth. THIS is the burden that is
terrible, and not the truth.

That you are joined is your salvation; the gift of Heaven, not the gift
of fear. Does Heaven seem to be a burden to you? In madness, yes. And
yet what madness sees must be dispelled by reason. Reason assures you
Heaven is what you WANT, and ALL you want. Listen to Him Who speaks with
reason, and brings your reason into line with His. Be willing to let
reason be the means by which He would direct you how to leave insanity
behind. Hide not behind insanity, in order to escape from reason. What
madness would conceal, the Holy Spirit still holds out for everyone to
look upon with gladness.

You ARE your brotherâ€™s Savior. He is YOURS. Reason speaks happily indeed
of this. This gracious plan was given love by Love. And what Love plans
is like Itself in this: Being united, It would have you learn what YOU
must be. And being one with It, it must be given you to give what It has
given, and gives still. Spend but an instant in the glad acceptance of
what is given you to give your brother, and learn with him what has been
given BOTH of you. To give is no more blessed than to receive. But
neither is it less.

The Son of God is ALWAYS blessed as one. And as his gratitude goes out
to you who blessed him, reason will tell you that it cannot be you stand
apart from blessing. The gratitude he offers you reminds you of the
thanks your Father gives you for completing Him. And here alone does
reason tell you that you can understand what you must be. Your Father is
as close to you as is your brother. Yet what is there that could be
nearer you than is your Self?

The power that you have over the Son of God is not a threat to his
reality. It but ATTESTS to it. Where could his freedom lie but in
himself, if he be free already? And who could bind him but himself,
if he deny his freedom? God is not mocked; no more His Son can be
imprisoned save by his own desire. And it is by his own desire that he
is freed. Such is his strength, and not his weakness. He IS at his own
mercy. And where he chooses to be merciful, there is he free. But where
he chooses to condemn instead, there is he held a prisoner, waiting in
chains his pardon on himself to set him free.

