---
chapter: Eighteen
ctitle: The Dream and the Reality
title: Substitution as a Defense
ref: T18.1
---

You who believe that God is fear made but one substitution. It has taken
many forms, because it was the substitution of illusion for truth; of
fragmentation for wholeness. It has become so splintered and subdivided
and divided again, over and over, that it is now almost impossible to
perceive it once was one, and still is what it was. That one error,
which brought truth to illusion, infinity to time, and life to death,
was all you ever made. Your whole world rests upon it. Everything you
see reflects it, and every special relationship which you have ever made
is part of it.

You have expressed surprise at hearing how very different is reality
from what you see. You do not realize the magnitude of that one error. It
was so vast and so completely incredible that from it a world of total
unreality HAD to emerge. What else COULD come of it? Its fragmented
aspects are fearful enough, as you begin to look at them. But nothing
you have seen begins to show you the enormity of the original error,
which seemed to cast you out of Heaven, to shatter knowledge into
meaningless bits of disunited perceptions, and to force you to further
substitutions.

That was the first projection of error outward. The world arose to hide
it, and became the screen on which it was projected and drawn between
you and the truth. For truth extends INWARD, where the idea of loss is
meaningless, and only increase is conceivable. Do you really think it
strange that a world in which everything is backwards and upside-down
arose from this? For truth brought to THIS could only remain within in
quiet, and take no part in all the mad projection by which this world
was made. Call it not sin but madness, for such it was, and so it still
remains. Invest it not
with guilt, for guilt implies it was accomplished in reality. And above
all, be not AFRAID of it. When you seem to see some twisted form of the
original error rise to frighten you, say only, “God is not fear, but
love,” and it will disappear.

The truth will SAVE you. It has not left you, to go out into the mad
world and so depart from you. Inward is sanity; insanity is OUTSIDE you.
You but BELIEVE it is the other way; that truth is outside, and error
and guilt within. Your little, senseless substitutions, touched with
insanity and swirling lightly off on a mad course like feathers dancing
insanely in the wind, have NO substance. They fuse and merge and
separate, in shifting and totally meaningless patterns which need not be
judged at all. To judge them individually is pointless. Their tiny
differences in form are no real differences at all. NONE of them
matters. THAT they have in common, and nothing else. Yet what else is
NECESSARY to make them all the same?

Let them all go, dancing in the wind, dipping and turning till they
disappear from sight, far, far outside you. And turn you to the stately
calm within, where in holy stillness dwells the living God you never
left, and Who never left you. The Holy Spirit takes you gently by the
hand, and retraces with you your mad journey outside yourself, leading
you gently back to the truth and safety within. He brings all your
insane projections and your wild substitutions which you have placed
outside you to the truth. Thus He reverses the course of insanity, and
restores you to reason.

In your relationship, where He has taken charge of everything at your
request, He has set the course inward, to the truth you share. In the
mad world outside you, nothing can be shared but only substituted, and
sharing and substituting have nothing in common in reality. Within
yourselves you love each other with a perfect love. Here is holy ground,
in which no substitution can enter, and where only the truth about each
other can abide. Here you are joined in God, as much together as you are
with Him. The original error has not entered here, nor ever will. Here
is the radiant truth, to which the Holy Spirit has committed your
relationship. Let Him bring it here, where YOU would have it be. Give
Him but a little faith in each other, to help him show you that no
substitute you made for Heaven can keep you from it. In you there IS no
separation, and no
substitute can keep you from each other. Your reality was God’s
creation, and HAS no substitute.

You are so firmly joined in truth that only God is there. And He would
never accept something else instead of you. He loves you both, equally
and as one. And as He loves you, so you ARE. You are not joined together
in illusions, but in the Thought so holy and so perfect that illusions
cannot remain to darken the holy place in which you stand together. God
is with you, my brothers. Let us join in Him in peace and gratitude, and
accept His gift as our most holy and perfect reality, which we share in
Him.

Heaven is restored to all the Sonship through your relationship, for in
it lies the Sonship, whole and beautiful, safe in your love. Heaven has
entered quietly, for all illusions have been gently brought unto the
truth in you, and love has shined upon you, blessing your relationship
with truth. God and His whole creation have entered it together. How
lovely and how holy is your relationship, with the truth shining upon
it! Heaven beholds it, and rejoices that you have let it come to you.
The universe within you stands with you, together. And Heaven looks with
love on what is joined in it, along with its Creator.

Whom God has called should hear no substitutes. Their call is but an
echo of the original error which shattered Heaven. And what became of
peace in those who heard? Return with me to Heaven, walking together out
of this world and through another to the loveliness and joy the other
holds within it. Would you still further weaken and break apart what is
already broken and hopeless? Is it here that you would look for
happiness? Or would you not prefer to heal what has been broken, and
join in making whole what has been ravaged by separation and disease?

You have been called, together, to the most holy function that this
world contains. It is the only one which has no limits, and reaches out
to every broken fragment of the Sonship with healing and uniting
comfort. This is offered YOU, in your holy relationship. Accept it here,
and you will give as you have accepted. The peace of God is given you
with the glowing purpose in which you join. The holy light that brought
you together must extend, as YOU accepted it.

