---
chapter: Eighteen
ctitle: The Dream and the Reality
title: The Basis of the Dream
ref: T18.2
---

Does not a world that seems quite real arise in dreams? Yet think what
this world is. It is clearly NOT the world you saw before you slept.
Rather, it is a distortion of the world, planned solely around what you
would have preferred. Here, you are “free” to make over whatever seemed
to attack you, and change it into a tribute to your ego, which was
outraged by the “attack.” This would not BE your wish unless you saw
yourself as one with the ego, which always looks upon itself, and
therefore on you, as under attack and highly vulnerable to it.

Dreams are chaotic BECAUSE they are governed by your conflicting wishes,
and therefore they have no CONCERN with what is true. They are the best
example you could have of how perception can be utilized to substitute
illusions for truth. You do not take them seriously on awaking because
the fact that reality is so outrageously violated in them becomes
apparent. Yet they are a way of looking at the world, and changing it to
suit the ego better. They provide striking examples, both of the ego’s
inability to tolerate reality, and your willingness to CHANGE reality on
its behalf.

You do not find the differences between what you see in sleep and on
awaking disturbing. You recognize that what you see on waking is blotted
out in dreams. Yet on awakening, you do not expect it to be gone. In
dreams, YOU arrange everything. People become what you would have them
be, and what they do YOU order. No limits on substitution is laid upon
you. For a time, it seems as if the world were given you, to make it
what you will. You do not realize that you are ATTACKING it, trying to
triumph over it and make it serve you.

Dreams are perceptual temper tantrums, in which you literally scream, “I
want it THUS!” And thus it seems to be. And yet, the dream cannot escape
its origin. Anger and fear pervade it, and in an instant, the illusion
of satisfaction is invaded by the illusion of terror. For the dream of
your ability to control reality by substituting a world which you prefer
IS terrifying. Your attempts to blot out reality are very fearful, but
this you are not willing to accept. And so you substitute the fantasy
that REALITY is fearful, not what you would DO to it. And thus is guilt
made real.

Dreams show you that you HAVE the power to make a world as you would
have it be, and that because you WANT it you SEE IT. And while you see
it, you do not doubt that it is real. Yet here is a world, clearly
within your mind, that seems to be OUTSIDE. You do not respond to it as
though you made it, nor do you realize that the emotions which the dream
produce MUST come from you. It is the figures in the dream and what THEY
do that seem to make the dream. You do not realize that you are making
them act out for YOU, for if you did, the guilt would not be theirs, and
the illusion of satisfaction would be gone. In dreams these features are
not obscure. You seem to waken, and the dream is gone. Yet what you fail
to recognize is that what caused the dream has not gone with it.

Your wish to make another world that is not real REMAINS with you. And
what you seem to wake to is but another form of this same world you see
in dreams. All your time is spent in dreaming. Your sleeping and your
waking dreams have different forms, and that is all. Their CONTENT is
the same. They are your protest against reality, and your fixed and
insane idea that you can change it. In your waking dreams, the special
relationship is your determination to keep your hold on unreality, and
to prevent yourself from waking. And while you see more value in
sleeping than in waking, you will not let go of it.

The Holy Spirit, ever practical in His wisdom, accepts your dreams, and
uses them as means for waking. YOU would have used them to remain
asleep. We once said that the first change, before dreams disappear, is
that your dreams of fear are changed to happy dreams. That is what the
Holy Spirit does in your special relationship. He does not destroy it,
nor snatch it away from you. Your special relationship will remain, not
as a source of pain and guilt, but as a source of joy and freedom. It
will not be for you alone, for therein lay its misery. As its unholiness
kept it a thing apart, its holiness will become an offering to everyone.

Your special relationship will be a means for undoing guilt in everyone
blessed through your holy relationship. It will be a happy dream, and
one which you will share with all who come within your sight. Through
it, the blessing which the Holy Spirit has laid upon it will be
extended. Think not that He has forgotten anyone in the purpose He has
given you. And think not that He has forgotten you
to whom He gave the gift. He uses everyone who calls on Him as means for
the salvation of everyone. And He will waken everyone through you who
offered your relationship to Him. If you but recognized His gratitude!
Or mine through His! For we are joined as in one purpose, being of one
mind with Him.

Let not the dream take hold to close your eyes. It is not strange that
dreams can make a world that is unreal. The WISH to make it is
incredible. Your relationship has become one in which the wish has been
removed, because its purpose has been changed from one of dreams to one
of truth. You are not sure of this because you think it may be THIS that
is the dream. You are so used to choosing between dreams you do not see
that you have made, at last, the choice between the truth and ALL
illusions.

Yet Heaven is sure. This is no dream. Its coming means that you have
chosen truth, and it has come because you have been willing to let your
special relationship meet its conditions. In your relationship, the Holy
Spirit has gently laid the real world; the world of happy dreams, from
which awaking is so easy and so natural. For as your sleeping and your
waking dreams represent the same wishes in your mind, so do the real
world and the truth of Heaven join in the Will of God. The dream of
waking is easily transferred to its reality. For this dream comes from
your will joined with the Will of God. And what this Will would have
accomplished has never NOT been done.

