---
chapter: Eighteen
ctitle: The Dream and the Reality
title: The Delusional Thought System
ref: T18.9
---

You have been told to bring the darkness to the light, and guilt to
holiness. And you have also been told that error must be corrected at
its source. Therefore, it is the tiny part of yourself, the little
thought that seems split off and separate, which the Holy Spirit needs.
The rest is fully in God’s keeping, and NEEDS no guide. Yet this wild and
delusional thought needs help because, in its delusions, it thinks it is
the Son of God, whole and omnipotent, sole ruler of the kingdom it set
apart to tyrannize by madness into obedience and slavery.

This is the little part of you you think you stole from Heaven. Give it
back to Heaven. Heaven has not lost it, but YOU have lost sight of
Heaven. Let the Holy Spirit remove it from the withered kingdom in which
you set it off, surrounded by darkness, guarded by attack, and
reinforced by hate. Within its barricades is still a tiny segment of the
Son of God, complete and holy, serene and unaware of what you think
surrounds it. Be you not separate, for the One Who DOES surround it has
brought union to you, returning your little offering of darkness to the
eternal Light.

How is this done? It is extremely simple, being based on what this
little kingdom really is. The barren sands, the darkness and the
lifelessness are seen only through the body’s eyes. Its vision IS
distorted, and the messages it transmits to you who made it to LIMIT
your awareness ARE little and limited, and so fragmented they are
meaningless. From the world of bodies, made by insanity, insane messages
seem to be returned to the mind which made it. And these
messages bear witness to this world, pronouncing it as true. For YOU
sent forth these messengers to bring this back to you.

Everything these messages relay to you is quite external. There are no
messages which speak of what lies underneath, for it is not the body
that COULD speak of this. Its eyes perceive it not; its senses remain
quite unaware of it; its tongue cannot relay its messages. Yet God can
bring you there, if you are willing to follow the Holy Spirit through
seeming terror, trusting Him not to abandon you and leave you there. For
it is not His purpose to frighten you, but only YOURS. You are severely
tempted to abandon Him at the outside ring of fear, but He would lead
you safely through and far beyond.

The circle of fear lies just below the level the body sees, and seems to
be the whole foundation on which the world is based. Here are all the
illusions, all the twisted thoughts, all the insane attacks, the fury,
vengeance and betrayal that were made to keep the guilt in place, so
that the world could rise from it and keep it hidden. Its shadow rises
to the surface, enough to hold its most external manifestations in
darkness, and to bring despair and loneliness to it and keep it joyless.
Yet its intensity is veiled by its heavy coverings, and kept apart from
what was made to keep it hidden. The body cannot see this, for the body
arose from this for its protection, which must always depend on keeping
it NOT seen. The body’s eyes will never look on it. Yet they will see
what it dictates.

The body will remain guilt’s messenger, and will act as it directs as
long as you believe that guilt is real. For the reality of guilt is the
illusion which seems to make it heavy and opaque, impenetrable, and a
real foundation for the ego’s thought system. Its thinness and
transparency are not apparent until you see the light BEHIND it. And
then you see it as a fragile veil before the light.

This heavy-seeming barrier, this artificial floor which looks like rock,
is like a bank of low dark clouds that seems to be a solid wall before
the sun. Its impenetrable appearance is wholly an illusion. It gives way
softly to the mountain tops which rise above it, and has no power at all
to hold back anyone willing to climb above it and see the sun. It is not
strong enough to stop a button’s fall, nor hold a feather. Try but to
touch it and it disappears; attempt to grasp it and your hands hold
nothing.

Yet in this cloud bank it is easy to see a whole world rising. A solid
mountain range, a lake, a city, all rise in your imagination, and from
the clouds the messengers of your perception return to you, assuring you
that it is all there. Figures stand out and move about, actions seem
real, and forms appear and shift from loveliness to the grotesque. And
back and forth they go, as long as you would play the game of children’s
make believe. Yet however long you play it, and regardless of how much
imagination you bring to it, you do not confuse it with the world below,
nor seek to make it real.

So should it be with the dark clouds of guilt, no more impenetrable and
no more substantial. You will not bruise yourself against them in
traveling through. Let your Guide TEACH you their unsubstantial nature
as He leads you past them, for beneath them is a world of light whereon
they cast no shadows. Their shadows lie upon the world beyond them, still
further from the light. Yet from them TO the light their shadows cannot
fall.

This world of light, this circle of brightness, is the real world where
guilt meets with forgiveness. Here, the world outside is seen anew,
without the shadow of guilt upon it. Here are you forgiven, for here you
have forgiven everyone. Here is the new perception, where everything is
bright and shining with innocence, washed in the waters of forgiveness,
and cleansed of every evil thought you had laid upon it. Here there is
no attack upon the Son of God, and you are welcome. Here is your
innocence, waiting to clothe you and protect you, and make you ready for
the final step in the journey inward. Here are the dark and heavy
garments of guilt laid by, and gently replaced by purity and love.

Yet even forgiveness is not the end. Forgiveness DOES make lovely, but
it does not create. It is the source of healing, but it is the messenger
of love, and not its Source. Here you are led that God Himself can take
the final step unhindered, for here does nothing interfere with love,
letting it be itself. A step beyond this holy place, a step still
further inward but the one YOU cannot take, transports you to something
completely different. Here is the Source of light; nothing perceived,
forgiven nor transformed. But merely KNOWN.

