---
chapter: Eighteen
ctitle: The Dream and the Reality
title: The Happy Dream
ref: T18.5
---

Prepare you NOW for the undoing of what never was. If you already
understood the difference between truth and illusion, the Atonement
would have no meaning. The holy instant, your holy relationship, the Holy
Spirit’s teaching, and all the means by which salvation is accomplished,
would have no purpose. For they are all but aspects of the plan to
change your dreams of fear to happy dreams, from which you waken easily
to knowledge. Put yourself not in charge of this, for you cannot
distinguish between advance and retreat. Some of your greatest advances
you have judged as failures, and some of your deepest retreats you have
evaluated as success.

Never approach the holy instant after YOU have tried to remove all fear
and hatred from your mind. That is ITS function. Never attempt to
overlook your guilt BEFORE you ask the Holy Spirit’s help. That is HIS
function. Your part is only to offer Him a little willingness to LET Him
remove all fear and hatred, and to BE forgiven. On your little faith,
joined with His understanding, HE will build your part in the Atonement,
and make sure that you fulfill it easily. And with Him, YOU will build a
ladder planted in the solid rock of faith, and rising even to Heaven.
Nor will you use it to ascend to Heaven alone.

Through your holy relationship, reborn and blessed in every holy instant
which you do not arrange, thousands will rise to Heaven with you. Can
YOU plan for this? Or could you prepare YOURSELVES for such a function?
Yet it is possible, because God wills it. Nor will He
change His Mind about it. The means and purpose BOTH belong to Him. You
have accepted one; the other will be provided. A purpose such as this,
without the means, is inconceivable. He will provide the means to ANYONE
who shares His purpose.

Happy dreams come true, NOT because they are dreams, but only because
they are HAPPY. And so they must be loving. Their message is, “Thy Will
be done,” and not, “I want it otherwise.” The alignment of means and
purpose is an undertaking impossible for you to understand. You do not
even realize you HAVE accepted the Holy Spirit’s purpose as your own,
and you would merely bring unholy means to its accomplishment. The
little faith it needed to change the purpose is all that is required to
receive the means and USE them.

It is no dream to love your brother as yourself. Nor is your holy
relationship a dream. All that remains of dreams within it is that it is
still a SPECIAL relationship. Yet it is very useful to the Holy Spirit,
Who HAS a special function here. It will become the happy dream through
which He can spread joy to thousands on thousands who believe that love
is fear, not happiness. Let Him fulfill the function that He gave to
your relationship by accepting it FOR you, and nothing will be wanting
that would make of it what He would have it be.

When you feel the holiness of your relationship is threatened by
anything, stop instantly and offer the Holy Spirit your willingness, IN
SPITE of fear, to let Him exchange this instant for the holy one which
you would rather have. He will never fail in this. But forget not that
your relationship is one, and so it must be that whatever threatens the
peace of one is an equal threat to the other. The power of joining and
its blessing lie in the fact that it is now impossible for either of you
to experience fear alone, or to attempt to deal with it alone. Never
believe that this is necessary, or even possible. Yet just as this is
impossible, so is it equally impossible that the holy instant comes to
either of you WITHOUT the other. And it will come to BOTH at the request
of either.

Which ever is saner at the time when the threat is perceived should
remember how deep is his indebtedness to the other, and how much
gratitude is due him, and be glad that he can pay his debt
by bringing happiness to both. Let him remember this, and say:

> “I desire this holy instant for myself<br/>
> That I may share it with my brother, whom I love.<br/>
> It is not possible that I can have it without him, or he without
> me.<br/>
> Yet it is wholly possible for us to share it NOW.<br/>
> And so I choose this instant as the one to offer to the Holy
> Spirit,<br/>
> That His blessing may descend on us, and keep us BOTH in peace.”

