---
chapter: Eighteen
ctitle: The Dream and the Reality
title: The Passing of the Dream
ref: T18.10
---

This course will LEAD to knowledge, but knowledge itself is still beyond
the scope of our curriculum. Nor is there any need for us to try to
speak of what must forever lie beyond words. We need remember only that
whoever attains the real world, beyond which learning cannot go, WILL go
beyond it, but in a different way. Where learning ends there God begins,
for learning ends before Him Who is complete where He begins, and where
there IS no end. It is not for us to dwell on what CANNOT be attained.
There is too much to learn. The readiness for knowledge still must be
attained.

Love is not learned. Its meaning lies in itself. And learning ends when
you have recognized all it is NOT. That is the interference; that is what
needs to be undone. Love is not learned because there never was a time
in which you knew it not. Learning is useless in the Presence of your
Creator, Whose acknowledgement of you and yours of Him so far transcend
all learning that everything you learned is meaningless, replaced
forever by the knowledge of love and its one meaning.

Your relationship has been uprooted from the world of shadows, and its
unholy purpose has been safely brought through the barriers of guilt,
washed with forgiveness, and set shining and firmly rooted in the world
of light. From there, it calls to you to follow the course it took,
lifted high above the darkness, and gently placed before the gates of
Heaven. The holy instant in which you were united is but the messenger
of love, sent from beyond forgiveness to remind you of all that lies
beyond it. Yet it is through forgiveness that it will BE remembered.

And when the memory of God has come to you in the holy place of
forgiveness, you will remember nothing else, and memory will be as
useless as learning, for your only purpose will be creating. Yet this
you cannot know until every perception has been cleansed and purified,
and finally removed forever. Forgiveness removes only the UNTRUE,
lifting the shadows from the world, and carrying it, safe and sure
within its gentleness, to the bright world of new and clean perception.
There is your purpose NOW. And it is there that peace awaits you.

