---
chapter: Eighteen
ctitle: The Dream and the Reality
title: Light in the Dream
ref: T18.3
---

You who have spent your lives in bringing truth to illusion, reality to
fantasy, have walked the way of dreams. For you have gone from waking to
sleeping, and on and on to a yet deeper sleep. Each dream has led to
other dreams, and every fantasy which seemed to bring a light into the
darkness but made the darkness deeper. Your GOAL was darkness, in which
no ray of light could enter. And you sought a blackness so complete that
you could hide from truth forever, in complete insanity. What you forgot
was simply that God cannot destroy Himself. The light is IN you.
Darkness can cover it, but CANNOT put it out.

As the light comes nearer you will rush to darkness, shrinking from the
truth, sometimes retreating to the lesser forms of fear, and
sometimes to stark terror. But you WILL advance because your goal IS the
advance from fear to truth. You KNOW this. The goal which you accepted
IS the goal of knowledge, for which you signified your willingness. Fear
seems to live in darkness, and when you are afraid you have stepped
back. Let us then join quickly in an instant of light, and it will be
enough to remind you that your goal IS light. Truth has rushed to meet
you since you called upon it.

If you knew Who walks beside you on this way which you have chosen, fear
would be impossible. You do not know because the journey into darkness
has been long and cruel, and you have gone deep into it. A little
flicker of your eyelids, closed so long, has not yet been sufficient to
give you confidence in yourselves, so long despised. You go toward love
still hating it, and terribly afraid of its judgement upon you. And you
do not realize that you are not afraid of love, but only of what you
have made of it. You are advancing to love’s meaning, and away from all
illusions in which you have surrounded it. When you retreat to the
illusion your fear increases, for there is little doubt that what you
think it means IS fearful. Yet what is that to us who travel surely and
very swiftly AWAY from fear?

You who hold each other’s hand also hold mine, for when you joined each
other you were not alone. Do you believe that I would leave you in the
darkness you agreed to leave with ME? In your relationship is this
world’s light. And fear MUST disappear before you now. Be tempted not to
snatch away the gift of faith you offered to each other. You will succeed
only in frightening yourselves. The gift is given forever, for God
Himself received it. You CANNOT take it back. You have accepted God. The
holiness of your relationship is established in Heaven. You do not
understand what you accepted, but remember that your understanding is
not necessary. All that was necessary was merely the WISH to understand.
That wish was the desire to be holy. The will of God is granted you. For
you desire the only thing you ever had, or ever were.

Each instant that we spend together will teach you that this goal is
possible, and will strengthen your desire to reach it. And in your
desire lies its accomplishment. Your desire is now in complete accord
with all the power of the Holy Spirit’s Will. No little, faltering
footsteps that you may take can separate your desire from His Will and
from His strength. I hold your hand as surely as you agreed to take each
other’s.  You will not separate for I stand with you, and walk with you
in your advance to truth. And where we go we carry God with us.

In your relationship, you have joined with me in bringing Heaven to the
Son of God, who hid in darkness. You have been willing to bring the
darkness to light, and this willingness has given strength to everyone
who would remain in darkness. Those who would see WILL see. And they
will join with me in carrying their light into the darkness, when the
darkness in them is offered to the light, and is removed forever. My
need for you, joined with me in the holy light of your relationship, is
YOUR need for salvation. Would I not give you what you gave to me? For
when you joined each other, you answered me.

You who are now the bringers of salvation have the function of bringing
light to darkness. The darkness in you HAS been brought to light. Carry
it back to darkness, from the holy instant to which you brought it. We
are made whole in our desire to make whole. Let not time worry you, for
all the fear that you experience is really past. Time has been
re-adjusted to help us do, together, what your separate pasts would
hinder. You have gone past fear, for no two minds can join in the desire
for love without love’s joining THEM.

Not one light in Heaven but goes with you. Not one ray that shines
forever in the Mind of God but shines on you. Heaven is joined with you
in your advance to Heaven. When such great light has joined with you to
give the little spark of your desire the power of God Himself, CAN you
remain in darkness? You are coming home together, after a long and
meaningless journey which you undertook apart, and which led nowhere.
You have found each other, and will light each other’s way. And from
this light will the great rays extend back into darkness and forward
unto God, to shine away the past and so make room for His eternal
Presence, in Which everything is radiant in the light.

