---
chapter: Six
ctitle: Attack and Fear
title: The Relinquishment of Attack
ref: T6.3
---

We have used many words as synonymous which are not ordinarily regarded
as the same. We began with having and being, and more recently have used
others. Hearing and being are examples, to which we can also add
teaching and being, learning and being, and, above all, PROJECTING and
being. This is because, as we have said before,
every idea begins in the mind of the thinker and extends outward.
Therefore, what extends FROM the mind IS STILL IN IT, and from what it
extends it knows ITSELF. That is its natural talent. The word “knows” is
correct here, even though the ego does NOT know, and is not concerned
with being at all.

The Holy Spirit still holds knowledge safe through His impartial
perception. By attacking nothing, He presents no barrier at all to the
communication of God. Thus, being is never threatened. Your Godlike mind
can never BE defiled. The ego never was and never will be part of it,
but THROUGH the ego you can hear and teach and learn WHAT IS NOT TRUE.
From this, which YOU have made, you have taught yourselves to believe
that you ARE NOT what you ARE. You CANNOT teach what you have not
learned, and what you teach you strengthen in yourselves BECAUSE you are
sharing it. Every lesson you teach, YOU are learning.

That is why you must teach only ONE lesson. If you are to be
conflict-free yourselves, you must learn ONLY from the Holy Spirit, and
teach ONLY by Him. You ARE only love, but when you denied this you made
what you ARE something you must LEARN. We said before that the message
of the crucifixion was, “Teach only love, for that is what you ARE.”
This is the ONE lesson which is perfectly unified because it is the only
lesson which IS one. Only BY teaching it can you learn it.“As you teach
so will you learn.” If that is true, and it is true indeed, you must
never forget that what you teach is teaching YOU. What you project you
BELIEVE.

The only REAL safety lies in projecting only the Holy Spirit, because as
you see His gentleness in others, your OWN mind perceives ITSELF as
totally harmless. Once it can accept this fully, it does NOT see the
need to PROTECT ITSELF. The protection of God then dawns upon it,
assuring it that it is perfectly safe forever. The perfectly safe are
wholly benign. They bless because they know they ARE blessed. Without
anxiety the mind is wholly kind, and because it PROJECTS beneficence, it
IS beneficent.

Safety is THE COMPLETE RELINQUISHMENT OF ATTACK. No compromise is
possible in this. Teach attack in ANY form, and YOU HAVE LEARNED IT AND
IT WILL HURT YOU. Yet your learning is not immortal, and you can unlearn
it by NOT TEACHING IT. Since you cannot NOT teach, your salvation lies
in teaching the exact OPPOSITE of everything the ego believes. This is
how YOU will learn the truth that will set you free, and keep you so as
others learn it of YOU. The only way to HAVE peace is to TEACH peace. By
learning it through projection, it becomes a part of what you KNOW
because you cannot teach what you have dissociated.

Only thus can you win back the knowledge that you threw away. An idea
which you SHARE you must HAVE. It awakens in you through the conviction
of teaching. Remember that if teaching is being and learning is being,
teaching is learning. EVERYTHING you teach you are learning. Teach only
love, and learn that love is yours, and YOU are love.

