---
title: Oct 21, 2006
ref: T12.5 Finding the Present
---

How many of you are mean-timers? Do you know what a mean-timer is? A
mean-timer is someone who says, “I know that the second coming is
imminent, but in the meantime, I’m going to blah, blah, blah &hellip; I’m
going to be the best spiritual person, or the best spiritual student I
can be, or in the meantime I’m going to have the rowdiest, the most
lascivious, the most physically satisfying experiences I can come up
with because it’s going to be my last chance.”

Mean-timers are those who listen to what I’m saying and hear me say that
the way out of illusion—the way out of the dream, the way out of time—is
to be found in the space, in the gap between thinking &hellip; meaning
memory and thinking, meaning imagination, past and future. And they
hear me say &hellip; you hear me say, that help is available to you and you
can’t do it all alone because after all, the dream you’ve been in has
been a dream of being alone and insisting on doing everything alone.

And so you say, “Wow, I know Paul is in touch with his Guide. And I
know a few other people who are in touch with their Guide. And every
once in awhile, I think I hear my Guide &hellip; but not yet. And I’m
going to keep trying. But in the meantime until that happens, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. Oh, I’m going to Google the internet and find
out if any other teachers are saying what Raj is saying.” Or, “I’m
going to Google the scientific community to see whether anyone in the
field of science is beginning to confirm what Raj is saying.” You see?
[chuckle] Or, “I’m going to go to the library and check out the latest
spiritual growth books and see what further support I can get for
feeling confident that I’m not lost. I’ll do this in the meantime until
&hellip;” Until what? “Until I take *my intent* to be conscious, until I
take *my intent* to not be distracted by the past thinking and the future
thinking, and make commitment to the now, make commitment to the moment
between the past and the future, which is silence.”

All of you mean-timers are trying to make the best of the period of time
you’re choosing to take until you decide to get serious and actually do
it.

Mean-timers are dawdlers &hellip; sorta standing there, moving &hellip; um-m 
&hellip; moving your toes through the sand and inching forward and &hellip; um-m
noticing a sea-shell over there. You know it’s time to go! [said
emphatically] But you don’t want to go yet. So you just sorta dawdle.

You waste your opportunities to be conscious. Why? “Well, it takes too
much of my attention. It’s too hard. I’m not used to being
intelligent. [chuckle] I’m used to just letting my thoughts flow and
experience what I’m feeling and pay attention to my feelings and magnify
them and imagine what they mean, and just be crazy, disorganized,
confused. I’m used to that.”

How many of you listen to what I’m saying on Saturday nights? And while
you’re listening, you feel the meaning of what I’m saying and you are
inspired. And after we’re through, you are in a different place than
you were when you came in or started listening? And then you go home
and for the intervening week, your life is so different from what we’ve
talked about that you actually really get frustrated, because it seems
as though what I’m talking about bears so little relationship to what
you are experiencing.

Well, I’m very glad if you’re getting frustrated about it. Because if
you’re getting frustrated about it, it means that you’re actually
feeling the difference between the mental state in which all you’re
doing is thinking and the mental state in which thinking isn’t going
along, isn’t going on. And in that silence and in the attentiveness
that is there, you are learning something that’s very different from
what you have believed.

If you stop and think about what we’ve talked about for the last few
years, you will realize that we’ve said that your experience of your
world and your experience of your body, is that it reflects the
messengers you are sending out. It reflects back to you the use to
which you are putting your mind.

It isn’t that there really are objects like a body and a flower and a
tree—physical objects sitting separate from each other in particular
places in space and time. You see? That’s the way it seems to you when
you’re thinking because you always think in terms of space-time
coordinates.

No. There is Creation: Trees, flowers, legs, arms, torso, head,
glasses, water. There is infinite conscious experience of the ideas in
the Mind of God that constitute the Movement of Creation and they are
not separate from each other and they are not hard physical objects in
space. They are, as I’ve said before, pure Spirit. And they really
manifest and reflect their Source, which is God.

If you’ve gotten a divorce from the Father, God, then you’re going to
look at them with quite your own personal bias, with the definitions
you’ve given to it and you will have lost the experience of what they
truly are. You have lost the experience of what they truly are. And
they reflect back to you exactly the definitions you are sending out to
them.

In this day and age, it’s easy for you to &hellip; or it’s relatively easy
for you to recognize that the health, or lack of health of your body
pretty well is coordinate with the use you’re putting your mind to. If
you’re angry and miserable and you keep yourself in a constant state of
tension by means of your thought processes and your reasoning’s and your
logic, no matter how imperfect it might be, you know, you’re likely to
have high blood-pressure, you’re likely to have ulcers, you’re likely to
have any number of physical experiences (you call them) of dissonance.
And anyone who dares to take enough time to notice, will recognize that
this is a fact. Your body reflects back to you the messengers you are
sending forth to it.

Now, you notice this because you say, “This is my body. This particular
set of arms, and this particular set of legs and this particular head is
my body.” And so, if it’s not comfortable, you pay attention, and you
doctor it without solving the problem or you recognize the use to which
you’re putting your mind and you correct that use and have healing.

Now what you don’t recognize is, that the glass and the water and the
table and the chairs and the trees and the flowers, because of the
continuity on the uninterruptible connectedness of everything, is also,
for lack of better words, your body. But since you don’t claim it as
yours, then when this world that you are saying is out there separate
from you, reflects back to you the messages you’re sending out, and you
hear of war, and you hear of riots and you hear of murders and you hear
of kidnappings and so-in-so who died, you say, “Well, that’s the
world—that’s life!” And you don’t realize that the messages you send
out by virtue of thinking, get applied to absolutely everything
equally—the reason being, the continuity of All That Is.

Oh, somebody says, “Wha-a? You mean I’m responsible for the war in
Iraq?” Guilt, blame, which will necessarily lead to judgment and
punishment, that’s the orphan mindset’s frame of mind. But we don’t
have to go there.

Yes, the messengers you send out will come back confirming their
purpose. But, the real question is: Are you willing to look at what’s
happening and recognize that it’s all reflecting back to you the use to
which you are putting your mind? Not so that you can take blame or
responsibility, but so that you can change your mind and use it a
different way—not just any old different way.

You are all familiar with the statement: “There is another way to look
at this,” whatever it might be, there is another way to look at this.
Here’s the simplicity again. There aren’t thousands of different ways
to look at everything. There are only two. One is, all by yourself.
And the other is, joined. If you’re looking at everything all by
yourself through the orphan mentality, then because that mentality is
itself based on a false premise, everything that follows will not
exhibit truth. It’s just that simple.

So, if there’s a different way to look at things, when you look at your
world and say, “Hm-m, if the world is reflecting back to me the use to
which I’m putting my mind, if my body is reflecting back to me the use
to which I’m putting my mind, then because it’s obviously not
harmonious, not pleasant, apparently destructive, undesirable—far from
Heaven—then I better take advantage of the other way to look at this.
And the other way to look at this is joined.

What does that mean? It means not spending another moment looking at it
all by yourself. It means inviting the Holy Spirit or me or the Father
back in. And ultimately it’s your Father that you need to invite back
it. Because it’s your Father, who, by virtue of being your Father,
gives you your identity—tells you who you Are, tells you what your
Birthright is. Um-m, better than telling you what you’re Birthright is,
imbues you with the experience of what your Birthright is so that you no
longer even entertain the fantastic idea that you’re an orphan.

Mean-timers are caught in eddies along side the edge of the river, not
in the flow, not inseparable from the movement and power and the
purpose. If you’re not in touch with your Guide yet, or if you’re only
occasionally in touch with your Guide, then gather some more resolve
than you’ve been bringing into play so that you stop being the
mean-timer who finds interesting things to do until “Jesus comes again.”
Because the only thing you’re doing in the meantime until something, is
until you stop being a mean-timer until you actually take the plunge
with resolve and with commitment. Why? Because you don’t want to be
unconscious of the moment you’re in. You do not want to miss what’s
going on in the moment you’re in. You don’t want to miss it because
you’re distracted with the past and the future and all the thinking you
can do about it.

What a silly engagement of your mind. And all it takes is decision.
“Well, ya know, I hear what you’re saying and I like what you’re saying,
but I just can’t get any willingness behind doing it. And I can’t
figure out why.”

I’ll tell you something: Don’t waste your time trying to figure out why
you’re not willing. Just do it! That’s what mean-timers do, they try
to figure out why things aren’t going right. They try to figure out
what it is they’re doing wrong, what deep-seated psychological block
there is. And as a result, they busy themselves without ever going into
the gap—without ever going into the silence—and being in the place where
you don’t know and letting it be absolutely perfect that you, as an
orphan mentality, don’t know.

Let’s go into the book. We ended up last time with the sentence:

<div class="well book">
Now is the time of salvation, &hellip;[^1]
</div>

&hellip; Now, the little gap, the silence, the presence of Mind &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; is the time of salvation, for now is the RELEASE from time.
</div>

Literally. In the release from time, healing doesn’t need to take time.
Healing can be instantaneous. In the absence of time, you can be here
and then there instantaneously. Here and there will still be present to
be experienced. You just won’t have to traverse the distance between
this space and that space, which according to the laws of physics, show
that it will take certain amount of time to get from one place to the
other and that’s your limitation, just accept it. Ultimately you can’t
go faster than the speed of light, it’s said. And that’s a limitation
if you have huge distances to go. There is no such limitation. But if
you believe it, that’s the messenger you will send out and you will get
confirmation back confirming it—proving it. Doesn’t make it true,
because there is release from time.

Again, time and thinking are synonymous, whether its thinking, called
the past, or it’s thinking, called the future. Time is not your natural
habitat. The gap is your natural habitat in which the inseparable
continuity of all of Creation is everywhere present—I can’t put it any
differently than that—and is available to you with a shift of attention
to experience directly, whether its twenty thousand par secs[^2] away, or
five feet away.

<div class="well book">
Now is the time of salvation, for now is the&hellip;
</div>

&hellip; actual &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; RELEASE from time. Reach out to all your Brothers, and touch them
with the touch of Christ.
</div>

<span class="person">*********28:04***************</span>Reach out to your
Brothers from the gap. Pay attention to your Brothers from the silence.
Pay attention to your Brothers from the absence of thinking. When you
are thinking, you are like one big mouth. And when you are in the gap,
you are like one big ear. It is a state of attention without
expectations, without preconceptions, it is what I have referred to as
looking at everything with innocent eyes, an innocent mind, a silent
mind.

<div class="well book">
Reach out to all your Brothers, and touch them with the touch of Christ.
</div> 

That is what you cannot help doing when you choose to look out at your
Brother from the silence. You reach out with the only thing that is
there, which is the Christ of you, and you touch your Brother and
because, from that place, there is perfect continuity—you touch the
Christ in him and he recognizes it and illuminates the Christ in you by
expressing his joy at the communion.

<div class="well book">
In timeless union with them is YOUR continuity, &hellip;

In timeless union with them &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your Brothers &hellip;

<div class="well book">
Is YOUR continuity, &hellip;
</div>

As long as you are looking at anything from the orphan mentality, it is
impossible to experience your continuity—you’re inseparable, indivisible
unalterable oneness with all of Creation. Because the very premise of
the orphan mindset is that you are alone and that you are alone by
choice so that you might exercise your personal private will for the
purpose of establishing yourself in your own right and ultimately
proving that you, on your own, are a success.  Simple black and white.
But &hellip;

<div class="well book">
In timeless union with them&hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your Brothers &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; is YOUR continuity, unbroken.
</div> 

Why? 

<div class="well book">
&hellip; because it is wholly shared. God’s guiltless Son is ONLY
light.
</div> 

Isn’t that something. Your mind, your attention is an illuminator.
Your attention illuminates what it is given to.

<div class="well book">
God’s guiltless Son is ONLY light. There is no darkness in him
anywhere, for he is whole. Call all your Brothers to witness to his
wholeness, as I am calling you to join with me.
</div>

There’s your task—there’s your purpose. It’s not a selfish purpose.
It’s not proving that you, in your own right, are actual and successful.

<div class="well book">
Call all your Brothers to witness to his wholeness, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your Brother’s wholeness. You’re there to send out messengers of
the reality of your Brothers. And you’re to invite your Brothers to
acknowledge the same thing in the Brother that you’re acknowledging.

<div class="well book">
&hellip; as I am calling you to join with me.
</div> 

You see.

<div class="well book">
Every voice has a part in the song of redemption, the hymn of gladness
and thanksgiving for the light to the Creator of light.
</div> 

You see, you invite the Father in. You let the Father in. You
acknowledge the Father. And in the acknowledgement, you can’t help but
be overflowing with what you’re experiencing and the overflow extends to
your Brother spontaneously and embraces and illumines him. And by
virtue of your giving it and his receiving it, it is confirmed that it
is yours. Because you have one purpose only and that is to confirm
Reality, to confirm truth, to confirm the Father in everything your
attention falls upon, instead of what you engage in every single
day—which is a far cry from that.

Again, it takes some discipline. Not a discipline of your thoughts,
[chuckle] but a discipline of your mind where you vacate the arena of
thinking itself. So that you do become a big ear, a big eye, in the gap
whose function is to pay attention and recognize and see. You see. And
when you let that be your function, which of course, takes you out of
the driver’s seat, because you can’t decide what to hear or what you
want to see. You’re there to hear and see whatever is there to see.
And what is there to see is Creation, undistorted.

It constitutes a different way of being, right where you have been being
all along. It is different. And you’ve got to be willing to let it be
different. And you’ve got to stop trying to make it interface with the
orphanage, or orphanland. Because the orphanage and orphanland, as I’ve
said over and over, is nothing but a misperception of what is really
there.

<div class="well book">
The holy light that shines forth from God’s Son &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; is the witness that his light is of &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; his Father.
</div> 

Remember, I said awhile back that it’s a good idea to stop talking about
“the Father” and start saying, “my Father?”

<div class="well book">
The holy light that shines forth from God’s Son is the witness that his
light is of his Father.
</div> 

Your light is of your Father. You are whole by virtue of being
inseparable from God and incapable of even approximating separation of
any sort no matter how creatively you have imagined it to be an absolute
separation.

<div class="well book">
Shine on your Brothers in remembrance of your Creator, &hellip;
</div>

“Oh yeah, shine on my Brothers—shine on my Brothers, poor bastards!
Shine on my Brothers. It’s so very hard for me to feel like shining on
my Brothers. They’re not &hellip; they’re not &hellip; they’re just too
difficult to be with, they’re too difficult to cope with &hellip; shine on
my Brothers &hellip;”

Well, what you’re saying is, “It’s more important for me not to be in my
right Mind, than it is for me to be in my right Mind. It’s more
important for me not to perform my function—my divine function—than it
is to perform my divine function. It is more important for me to be
conflicted than it is for me to be at peace.”

Hell, forget about having pity on your Brother and have pity on
yourself. Because until you care enough about yourself to invite the
Father in, or to get into the little gap and willingly stay there and
avoid thinking, you will not get out of your misery, you will not get
out of your confusion and you will not have any light to shine on your
Brothers.

It doesn’t matter whether your Brother deserves you shining on him, it
matters whether you want to be crazy or not, whether you enjoy being
insane, or whether you would like to experience what your natural
irrevocable sanity is.

So, &hellip;

<div class="well book">
Shine on your Brothers &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; in remembrance of your Creator, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; you see, until you have said, “Father, help!” Until you’ve said,
“Holy Spirit, help!” Until you’ve said “Jesus, help!” and you’ve meant
it, there won’t be any influx of conscious experience of your Father and
therefore, your identity, and therefore, an overflowing influx of
awareness of truth that you can shine on your Brother, and thus own
because you’ve performed your function.

<div class="well book">
Shine on your Brothers in remembrance of your Creator, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; and therefore your remembrance of yourself, and therefore your
remembrance of your Brother—who you are, who he is—so that you’re not
fooled by his orphan behavior or your memories of and pictures of him as
an orphan that you have cultivated and held.

<div class="well book">
Shine on your Brothers in remembrance of your Creator, for you will
remember Him &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your Creator &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; as you call forth the witnesses to His &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your Creator’s &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; creation.
</div> 

See, there’s where the unity is brought into focus. There’s where the
continuity is undisturbed, because you’re not engaged in dismembering
the unity of Creation by virtue of insane thinking.

<div class="well book">
Those whom you heal bear witness to YOUR healing, &hellip;
</div> 

When you see the truth, not just an idea, but when you feel and know the
truth that God is all there is to what you or a thing [is], you can
share it in a way that others will hear. And when they hear it, because
it’s not intellect, and it’s not thinking, and it’s not an orphan ploy
of manipulation to get the best of a situation, your Brother is healed
and his healing gives proof of your healing. His clarity gives proof of
your clarity.

<div class="well book">
Those whom you heal bear witness to YOUR healing, for in their wholeness
you will see your own.
</div> 

You see, you will feel the continuity, you will experience the
inseparability. You will know that oneness is the fact of the two of
you as one without the two of you melting into each other and losing all
identity whatsoever.

<div class="well book">
And as your hymns of praise and gladness &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; yours and your Brother’s &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; rise to your Creator, He &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; your Creator &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; will return your thanks in His clear answer to your call. For it
can never be that His Son called upon Him and remained unanswered.
</div> 

The continuity has always been there. The oneness has always been
there. The Christ that you are, is the only thing that has ever been
there, and the Christ that you are is the Son of God which constitutes
and gives you your identity, and it’s always been there. The truth has
always been there. Every request you have made has always been
answered. But you don’t hear the answer because you’re so sure of the
context in which the answer must come and it must come in the context of
orphanland and orphanages, and the miserable way in which orphans do
their best to deal with each other, to their own advantage without in
the process, killing each other off.

<div class="well book">
His call to you is but your call to Him.
</div> 

It’s one thing.

<div class="well book">
And IN Him &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the Father &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; you are answered by His peace.
</div> 

You know what? You say, “It’s too hard for me to find time to get into
my peace because everything is so unsettled and demanding, that it must
be taken care of or everything &hellip; everything will be destroyed,
everything will collapse, everything will fall to pieces.”

Well, people, think a little &hellip; uh-h-h—no&hellip; pay attention! For
centuries you’ve been thinking and for centuries things have been
chaotic but existence hasn’t been wiped out. Destruction has not
occurred. If you decide not to cater to the suggestion that you had
better take care of the problem before you get into your peace because
if you don’t the results will be disastrous, if you don’t play into that
ploy and you do choose for your peace instead, with disregard for the
invitation to be in conflict, everything will not collapse. And if you
move into your peace, your perspective will shift. Your perceptions
will shift. And without your exercising any power whatsoever, your
world will begin to reflect back to you the new messengers you are
sending out—the messengers of peace. And it will not require time for
peaceful adjustment to occur.

This is very important. It’s very important because it’s so
fundamental.

<div class="well book">
Children of Light, you know not that the light is in you. Yet you will
find it through its witnesses, for having GIVEN light to them they will
RETURN it.
</div> 

That is, if you’ve given light to them. If you’ve decided not to let
your mind run off half cocked insanely, but choose the messengers you
would send out.

<div class="well book">
Everyone you see in light brings YOUR light closer to your OWN
awareness.
</div> 

It’s inevitable. It’s a law. But if you don’t bother to see in light,
then there will be nothing to bring your light closer to your own
awareness. It’s just that simple.

<div class="well book">
Love always leads to love. The sick, who ask for love, are grateful for
it, and in their joy they shine with holy thanks. And this they offer
you who GAVE them joy.
</div> 

“Oh, yeah, that’s my Brother I’m supposed to shine on.” Yeah, well if
you do shine on your Brother, that’s what will happen.

<div class="well book">
The sick, who ask for love, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the ones who don’t deserve it, the ones that’s so hard for you to
get along with, when looking at them through the orphan mentality, &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; are grateful for it, &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the love they’ve asked for when they receive it &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; and in their joy they shine with holy thanks. And this they offer
you who GAVE them joy.
</div> 

Well, if that’s going to be the result, then what value is there in
saying, “Oh yeah, I gotta shine on my Brother?” What value is there in
it? None.

<div class="well book">
They &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; the sick, who ask for love &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; are your guides to joy, for having received it of you they would
keep it. You have established them as guides to peace, for you have
made it manifest in them. And seeing it, its beauty calls YOU home.
</div> 

Everything you do as an orphan—everything you do as an independent
agent—will establish independence and the awfulness of it more and more
definitely, more and more uncomfortably. But everything you do as a
gift, a willing extension of an excellent use of your mind, will reflect
back to you increased unity, increased experience of continuity, and the
joy that comes from the actual experience of not being alone.

<div class="well book">
There is a light which this world &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; that you have made up, I’m adding that &hellip;

<div class="well book">
There is a light which this world &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; which you thought up—which you gave definitions to &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; cannot give. Yet YOU can give it, as it was given you.
</div> 

Or we could say,

<div class="well book">
Yet YOU can give it, as it &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; is &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; given [to] you.
</div> 

But of course, you won’t receive it even though its given. You won’t
receive it, if you’re maintaining a staunch independent stance. “I don’t
need anything. I have everything I need. God gave me free will. God
gave me intelligence. God gave me a mind to use. And He gave it to me
to use well. And so I have the capability of using it well. I don’t
need anything more. I don’t need a gift. I don’t need any light.”

<div class="well book">
There is a light which this world cannot give. Yet YOU can give it, as
it was given you. And as you give it, it shines forth to call you from
the world and follow it.
</div> 

Right out of the orphanage. Right out of the orphan mind-set. Right
out of suffering. Right out of conflict.

<div class="well book">
For this light will attract you as nothing in this world can do. And
you will lay aside the world and find another.
</div> 

You see, there is a different way to look at this. You don’t have to
look at it all by yourself. You can look at it joined and you will see
another world. You will see the same world with such beautiful clarity
that it doesn’t look like what you thought it was, and you are no longer
confused into believing that the world and universe is polarized and
subject to decay. And that birth always means death.

<div class="well book">
And you will lay aside &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; orphan-land &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; you will lay aside the world and find another.
</div> 

Reality.

<div class="well book">
This other world is bright with love which &hellip;
</div> 

&hellip; what? &hellip;

<div class="well book">
&hellip; YOU have given it.
</div> 

Why? Because you’ve shown on your Brothers. You’ve shown on your
Brothers because you’d rather be in your right Mind. You’ve shown on
your Brothers because you didn’t want to be conflicted anymore. You’ve
shown on your Brothers because you wanted to be conscious rather than
unconscious right in the middle of the Kingdom of Heaven.

<div class="well book">
This other world is bright with love which YOU have given it. And here
will everything remind you of your Father &hellip;
</div> 

You see, you won’t be estranged from Him anymore and it will be Okay
with you for everything to remind you of your Father. Because anything
that reminds you of your Father reminds you of You, Who you really Are.
And Who it has been your Birthright to be conscious of all along. Even
when you were having so much god damned fun being miserable, thinking
for yourself.

<div class="well book">
And here will everything remind you of your Father and his Holy Son.
Light is unlimited, and spreads across this world in quiet joy.
</div> 

Literally, the movement of the experience of joy—not the idea of joy—the
experience of joy quietly moves across your world because joy is not
exciting. Joy is full of peace. It’s full of peace because there is no
conflict in it. As a result, there is no edge to it, no excitement to
it, no fear to it. It’s full blown joy like a blanket rolling across
the world, not an object but an energy you, might say, that everything
and everyone—you, the trees, the squirrels, the ants—feel and are not
unconscious of.

<div class="well book">
Light is unlimited, and spreads across this world in quiet joy. All
those you brought with you will shine on you, and you will shine on them
in gratitude because they brought you here.
</div> 

You see, you did it together. It was an act and a conscious experience
of unity—of continuity.

<div class="well book">
Your light will join with theirs in power so compelling that it will
draw the others out of darkness as you look on them.
</div> 

Mind you, we’re discussing this in the context of finding the Present.
You might say, “Well, what will it be like if I do it?” Well, there it
is spelled out for you. But don’t do it for the goodies. That’s not
the point. Do it because you don’t want to be insane one more moment.
Do it because you don’t want to be unconscious of what’s really going on
one more moment.  You don’t want to dawdle one moment longer.

The rest will come because the rest is a gift. It’s a gift that was
given since the beginning, if I may put it that way. It is a gift that
is given new each moment. It’s the Movement of Creation. It’s the
Movement of God. And it’s your function not to miss it! It’s your
function not to miss it. It’s not your function to get satisfaction out
of cursing the President or cursing the politicians or running down the
school-board, or any of the righteous activities you engage in mentally.

I am telling you, and we’ve been reading, that the release from the past
and the future occurs by what? Not dealing with the past and not
dealing with the future but by abandoning them in favor of the little
gap of silence in the middle of the two. And becoming one big ear and
one big eye.

You know that if you are physically not well, and you change your
attitude—you watch what the use that you’re putting your mind to and
what messengers you’re sending out and you change the messengers you’re
sending out(,)—you have experienced healing, whether it was
instantaneous or whether it was gradual. Most of you have had this
experience. That’s all the proof you need to grasp the value of paying
close enough attention to your mind, to bring your attention out of the
realm of thinking into the silence of the moment and listen so that new
messages received from that place of excellence in you, the divine one
that you Are or so that clarity coming from your Guide, or revelation
coming from the Father, can fill you up with new messengers to send out
because it will make a difference. It’s a law.

See? I said the book’s predictable. It talks about the things that
you’re practicing that aren’t working for you so that you might look at
them squarely, so that you might look at the illusion or the beliefs
squarely, so that you can specifically release them, and it talks about
the truth and illumines the truth. And it goes back and forth.

Now I may have been speaking enthusiastically tonight but everything
that we have read about tonight, you could say, is the good news. We
weren’t having to take a look at the insanity and talk about the
insanity. We’ve talked about how things work—how Creation works—and
your inseparable part in it, and your inseparability from it, and your
absolute incapacity to engage in any activity alone. And this is good
news.

I love you all. And you know what? You love you all too. Really. And
if you find during the coming week that it’s difficult to be willing to
love yourself, or its difficult to be willing to love another, don’t try
to find out why you’re unwilling. Oh, the orphan mentality will give
you a whole sting of reasons that have nothing to do with anything but
they’ll keep you occupied in the meantime, until you just do it!

Okay. Have a wonderful week.

[^1]: Chapter 12 Section FINDING THE PRESENT \
   Sparkly Book p.295, Last Full Par. \
   JCIM p.124, 5th Full Par. \
   CIMS p.248, Par. 52 \
   Chapter 13 Section FINDING THE PRESENT \
   First Edition p.235, 1st Full Par. \
   Second Edition p.252, Par. 8

[^2]: Par secs – A unit of measure for interstellar space that is equal to
   3.26 light-years and is the distance to an object having a parallax of
   one second as seen from points separated by one astronomical unit.

