---
chapter: Twenty Two
ctitle: Salvation and the Holy Relationship
title: The Branching of the Road
ref: T22.4
---

When you come to the place where the branch in the road is quite
apparent, you cannot go ahead. You MUST go either one way or the other.
For now if you go straight ahead, the way you went before you reached
the branch, you will go NOWHERE. The whole purpose of coming this far
was to decide which branch you will take NOW. The way you came no longer
matters. It can no longer serve. No-one who reaches this far CAN make
the wrong decision, but he CAN delay. And there is no part of the
journey that seems more hopeless and futile than standing where the road
branches, and not deciding on which way to go.

It is but the first few steps along the right way that seem hard, for
you HAVE chosen, although you still may think you can go back and make
the other choice. This is not so. A choice made with the power of Heaven
to uphold it cannot BE undone. Your way IS decided. There will be
nothing you will not be told, if you acknowledge this.

And so you stand, here in this holy place, before the veil of sin that
hangs between you and the face of Christ. LET it be lifted! Raise it
together, for it is but a veil that stands between you. Either alone
will see it as a solid block, nor realize how thin the drapery that
separates you now. Yet it is almost over in your awareness, and peace has
reached you even here, before the veil. Think what will happen after!
The love of Christ will light your faces, and shine from them into a
darkened world that NEEDS the light. And from this holy place He will
return with you, not leaving it nor you. You will become His messengers,
returning Him unto Himself.

Think of the loveliness that you will see, who walk with Him! And think
how beautiful will each of you look to the other! How happy you will be
to be together, after such a long and lonely journey where you walked
alone. The gates of Heaven, open now for you, will you now open to the
sorrowful. And none who looks upon the Christ in you but will rejoice.
How beautiful the sight you saw beyond the veil, which you will bring to
light the tired eyes of those as weary now as once you were. How
thankful will they be to see you come among them, offering Christ’s
forgiveness to dispel their faith in sin.

Every mistake you make the other will gently have corrected for you, for
in his sight your loveliness is his salvation, which he would protect
from harm. And each will be the other’s strong protector from everything
that seems to rise between you. So shall you walk the world with me,
whose message has not yet been given to everyone. For you are here to
let it be RECEIVED. God’s offer still is open, yet it waits acceptance.
From you who have accepted it is it received. Into your joined hands is
it safely given, for you who share it have become its willing guardians
and protectors.

To all who share the Love of God the grace is given to be the givers of
what they have received. And so they learn that it is theirs forever.
All barriers disappear before their coming, as every obstacle was
finally surmounted which seemed to rise and block their way before. This
veil you lift together opens the way to truth to more than you. Those
who would let illusions be lifted from their minds are this world’s
Saviors, walking the world with their Redeemer, and carrying His message
of hope and freedom and release from suffering to everyone who needs a
miracle to save him.

How easy is it to offer this miracle to everyone! No-one who has
received it for himself could find it difficult. For by receiving it, he
learned it was not given him alone. Such is the function of a holy
relationship; to receive together, and give as you received. Standing
before the veil, it still seems difficult. But hold out your joined
hands and touch this heavy-seeming block, and you will learn how easily
your fingers slip through its nothingness. It is no solid wall. And only
an illusion stands between you and the holy Self you share.

