---
chapter: Twenty Two
ctitle: Salvation and the Holy Relationship
title: The Message of the Holy Relationship
ref: T22.1
---

Let reason take another step. If you attack whom God would heal and hate
the one He loves, then you and your Creator HAVE a different will. Yet if
you ARE His Will, what you must then believe is that you are not
YOURSELF. You can indeed believe this, and you DO. And you HAVE faith in
this, and see much evidence on its behalf. And where, you wonder, does
your strange uneasiness, your sense of being disconnected, and your
haunting fear of lack of meaning in yourself arise? It is as though you
wandered in without a plan of any kind except to wander off, for only
that seems certain.

Yet we have heard a very similar description earlier, but it was not of
YOU. And yet this strange idea which it DOES accurately describe, you
THINK is you. Reason would tell you that the world you see through eyes
which are not yours MUST make no sense to you. To whom would vision such
as this send back its messages? Surely not you, whose sight is wholly
independent of the eyes which look upon
the world. If this is not your vision, what can it show to you? The
brain cannot interpret what YOUR vision sees. This you would understand.
The brain interprets to the body, of which it is a part. But what it
says YOU cannot understand. Yet you have listened to it. And long and hard
you tried to understand its messages. You did not realize it is
impossible to understand what fails entirely to reach you.

You have received no messages at all you understand. For you have
listened to what can never communicate at all. Think, then, what
happened. Denying what you are, and firm in faith that you are something
else, this “something else” which you have made to be yourself BECAME
your sight. Yet it must be the “something else” which sees, and as NOT
you, EXPLAINS its sight to you. YOUR vision would, of course, render
this quite unnecessary. Yet if your eyes are closed, and you have called
upon this thing to lead you, asking it to explain to you the world it
sees, you have no reason not to listen, nor to suspect that what it
tells you is not true. Reason would tell you it cannot be true BECAUSE
you do not understand it. God has no secrets. He does not lead you
through a world of misery, waiting to tell you, at the journey’s end,
why He did this to you.

What could be secret from God’s Will? Yet you believe that YOU have
secrets. What could your secrets be except ANOTHER will that is your
own, apart from His? Reason would tell you that this is no secret that
need be hidden as a sin. But a mistake indeed! Let not your fear of sin
protect it from correction, for the attraction of guilt is only fear.
Here is the one emotion that you made, whatever it may seem to be. This
is the emotion of secrecy, of private thoughts, and of the body. This is
the one emotion that opposes love, and always leads to sight of
differences and loss of sameness. Here is the one emotion that keeps you
blind, dependent on the self you think you made to lead you through the
world it made for you.

Your sight was given you, along with everything that you can understand.
You will perceive no difficulty in understanding what this vision tells
you, for everyone sees only what he thinks he IS. And what your sight
would show you, you will understand BECAUSE it is the truth. Only your
vision can convey to you what YOU can see. It reaches you directly,
without a need to be interpreted to you. What needs interpretation MUST
be alien. Nor will it ever be made understandable by an interpreter you
cannot understand.

Of all the messages you have received and failed to understand, this
course alone is OPEN to your understanding and CAN be understood. This is
YOUR language. You do not understand it yet only because your whole
communication is like a baby’s. The sounds a baby makes and what he hears
are highly unreliable, meaning different things to him at different
times. Neither the sounds he hears nor sights he sees are stable yet.
But what he hears and does not understand will be his native tongue,
through which he will communicate with those around him, and they with
him. And the strange, shifting ones he sees about him will become to him
his comforters, and he will recognize his home, and see them there with
him.

So in each holy relationship is the ability to communicate instead of
separate reborn. Yet a holy relationship, so recently reborn itself from
an unholy relationship and yet more ancient than the old illusion that
it has replaced, IS like a baby now in its rebirth. Yet in this infant
is your vision returned to you, and he will speak the language both of
you can understand. He is not nurtured by the “something else” you
thought was you. He was not given there, nor was received by anything
except yourself. For no two people can unite except through Christ,Whose
vision sees them one.

Think what is given you, my holy brothers. This child will teach you what
you do not understand, and make it plain. For his will be no alien
tongue. He will need no interpreter to you, for it was you who taught
him what he knows BECAUSE you knew it. He could not come to anyone but
you, never to “something else.” Where Christ has entered no-one is
alone, for never could He find a home in separate ones. Yet must He be
reborn into His ancient home, so seeming new and yet as old as He, a
tiny newcomer, dependent on the holiness of your relationship to let Him
live.

Be certain God did not entrust His Son to the unworthy. Nothing but what
is part of Him is worthy of being joined. Nor is it possible that
anything not part of Him CAN join. Communication must have been restored
to those that join, for this they could not do through bodies. What,
then, has joined them? Reason will tell you that they must have seen
each other through a vision not of the body, and communicated in a
language the body does not speak. Nor could it be a fearful sight or
sound that drew them gently into one.  Rather, in each the other saw a
perfect shelter where his Self could be reborn in safety and in peace.
Such did his reason tell him; such he believed BECAUSE it was the truth.

Here is the first direct perception that you have made. You made it
through awareness older than perception, and yet reborn in just an
instant. For what is time to what was always so? Think what that instant
brought; the recognition that the “something else” you thought was you
is an illusion. And truth came instantly to show you where your Self
must be. It is DENIAL of illusions that calls on truth, for to deny
illusions is to recognize that fear is meaningless. Into the holy home
where fear is powerless love enters thankfully, grateful that it is one
with you who joined to let it enter.

Christ comes to what is like Himself; the same, not different. For He is
always drawn unto Himself. What is as like Him as a holy relationship?
And what draws you together draws Him to you. Here are His sweetness and
His gentle innocence protected from attack. And here can He return in
confidence, for faith in one another is always faith in Him. You are
indeed correct in looking on each other as His chosen home, for here you
will with Him and with His Father. This is your Father’s Will for you,
and yours with His. And who is drawn to Christ is drawn to God as surely
as both are drawn to every holy relationship, the home prepared for them
as earth is turned to Heaven.

