---
chapter: Twenty Two
ctitle: Salvation and the Holy Relationship
title: Freedom and the Holy Spirit
ref: T22.6
---

Do you want freedom of the body or of the mind? For both you cannot
have. Which do you value? Which is your goal? For one you see as means;
the other, end. And one must serve the other and lead to its
predominance, increasing its importance by diminishing its own. Means
serve the end, and as the end is reached the value of the means
decreases, eclipsed entirely when they are recognized as functionless.
No-one but yearns for freedom, and tries to find it. Yet
he will seek for it where he believes it is, and can be found. He will
believe it possible of mind or body, and he will make the other serve
his choice as means to find it.

Where freedom of the body has been chosen, the mind is used as means
whose value lies in its ability to contrive ways to achieve the body’s
freedom. Yet freedom of the body has no meaning, and so the mind is
dedicated to serve illusions. This is a situation so contradictory and
so impossible that anyone who chooses this has no idea of what IS
valuable. Yet even in this confusion, so profound it cannot be
described, the Holy Spirit waits in gentle patience, as certain of the
outcome as He is sure of His Creator’s Love. He knows this mad decision
was made by one as dear to His Creator as love is to itself.

Be not disturbed at all to think how He can change the role of means and
end so easily in what God loves, and would have free forever. But be you
rather grateful that YOU can be the means to serve His end. This is the
only service which leads to freedom. To serve this end, the body must be
perceived as sinless, because the GOAL is sinlessness. The lack of
contradiction makes the soft transition from means to end as easy as is
the shift from hate to gratitude before forgiving eyes. You WILL be
sanctified by one another, using your bodies only to serve the sinless.
And it WILL be impossible for you to hate what serves what you would
heal.

This holy relationship, lovely in its innocence, mighty in strength, and
blazing with a light far brighter than the sun which lights the sky you
see, is chosen of your Father as a means for His Own plan. Be thankful
that it serves yours not at all. Nothing entrusted to it can be misused,
and nothing given it but will be used. This holy relationship has the
power to heal all pain, regardless of its form. Neither of you alone can
serve at all. Only in your joint will does healing lie. For here YOUR
healing is, and here will you accept Atonement. And in your healing is
the Sonship healed BECAUSE your wills are joined.

Before a holy relationship there is no sin. The form of error is no
longer seen, and reason, joined with love, looks quietly on all
confusion, observing merely,“This was a mistake.”And then the same
Atonement you accepted in your relationship corrects the error, and
lays a part of Heaven in its place. How blessed are you who let this
gift be given! Each part of Heaven that you bring is given YOU. And
every empty place in Heaven that you fill again with the Eternal Light
you bring shines now on YOU. The means of sinlessness can know no fear
because they carry only love with them.

Children of peace, the light HAS come to you. The light you bring you do
not recognize, and yet you will remember. Who can deny himself the
vision that he brings to others? And who would fail to recognize a gift
he let be laid in Heaven through himself? The gentle service that you
give the Holy Spirit is service to yourself. You who are now His means
must love all that He loves. And what you bring is your remembrance of
everything that is eternal. No trace of anything in time can long remain
in minds that serve the timeless. And no illusion can disturb the peace
of a relationship which has become the means of peace.

When you have looked upon each other with complete forgiveness, from
which no error is excluded and nothing kept hidden, what mistake can
there be anywhere you cannot overlook? What form of suffering could
block your sight, preventing you from seeing past it? And what illusion
could there be you will not recognize as a mistake; a shadow through
which you walk completely undismayed? God would let nothing interfere
with those whose wills are His, and serve it willingly. And COULD
remembrance of what they are be long delayed?

You will see your value through each other’s eyes, and each one is
released as he beholds his Savior in place of the attacker who he
thought was there. Through this releasing is the world released. This is
your part in bringing peace. For you have asked what is your function
here, and have been answered. Seek not to change it, nor to substitute
another goal. Accept this one and serve it willingly, for what the Holy
Spirit does with the gifts you give each other, to whom He offers them,
and where and when, is up to Him. He will bestow them where they are
received and welcomed. He will use every one of them for peace. Nor will
one little smile or willingness to overlook the tiniest mistake be lost
to anyone.

What can it be but universal blessing to look on what your Father loves
with charity? Extension of forgiveness is the Holy Spirit’s
function. Leave this to Him. Let your concern be only that you give to
Him that which can BE extended. Save no dark secrets that He cannot use,
but offer Him the tiny gifts He can extend forever. He will take each
one and make of it a potent force for peace. He will withhold no
blessing from it, or limit it in any way. He will join to it all the
power that God has given Him, to make each little gift of love a source
of healing for everyone. Each little gift you offer to the other lights
up the world. Be not concerned with darkness; look away from it, and
toward each other. And let the darkness be dispelled by Him Who knows
the light, and lays it gently in each quiet smile of faith and
confidence with which you bless each other.

On your learning depends the welfare of the world. And it is only
arrogance that would deny the power of your will. Think you the Will of
God is powerless? Is this humility? You do not see what this belief has
done. You see yourself as vulnerable, frail and easily destroyed, and at
the mercy of countless attackers more powerful than you. Let us look
straight at how this error came about, for here lies buried the heavy
anchor that seems to keep the fear of God in place, unmovable and solid
as a rock. While this remains, so will it seem to be.

Who can attack the Son of God and NOT attack his Father? How can God’s
Son be weak and frail and easily destroyed UNLESS his Father is? You do
not see that every sin and every condemnation which you perceive and
justify IS an attack upon your Father. And that is why it has not
happened, nor COULD be real. You do not see that this is your attempt
because you think the Father and the Son are separate. And you MUST
think that they are separate, because of fear. For it seems safer to
attack another or yourself than to attack the great Creator of the
universe,Whose power you KNOW.

If you were one with God and RECOGNIZED this oneness, you would know His
power is YOURS. But you will not remember this while you believe attack
of any kind means anything. It is unjustified in any form BECAUSE it has
no meaning. The only way it could be justified is if each one of you
were separate from the other, and all were separate from your Creator.
For only then would it be possible to attack a part of the creation
without the whole, the Son without the Father; and to attack another
without yourself, or hurt yourself
without the other feeling pain. And this belief you WANT. Yet wherein
lies its value except in the desire to attack in safety? Attack is
neither safe nor dangerous. It is IMPOSSIBLE. And this is so BECAUSE the
universe is one. You would not choose attack on its reality if it were
not essential to attack to see it separated from its maker. And thus it
seems as if love could attack, and become fearful.

Only the DIFFERENT can attack. So you conclude BECAUSE you can attack
you MUST be different. Yet does the Holy Spirit explain this
differently. BECAUSE you are not different, you CANNOT attack. Either
position is a logical conclusion, if only the different can attack.
Either could be maintained, but never both. The only question to be
answered to decide which must be true is whether you ARE different. From
the position of what you understand, you seem to be, and therefore can
attack. Of the alternatives, this seems more natural and more in line
with your experience. And therefore it is necessary that you have other
experiences, more in line with truth, to teach you what IS natural and
true.

This is the function of your holy relationship. For what one thinks the
other will experience with him. What can this mean EXCEPT your minds are
one? Look not with fear upon this happy fact, and think not that it lays
a heavy burden on you. For when you have accepted it with gladness, you
will realize that your relationship is a reflection of the union of the
Creator and His Son. From loving minds there IS no separation. And every
thought in one brings gladness to the other BECAUSE they are the same.
Joy is unlimited because each shining thought of love extends its being,
and creates more of itself. There is no difference anywhere in it, for
every thought is like itself.

The light that joins you shines throughout the universe, and because it
joins you, so it makes you one with your Creator. And in Him is all
creation joined. Would you regret you cannot fear alone, when your
relationship can also teach the power of love is there, which makes all
fear impossible? Do not attempt to keep a little of the ego with this
gift. For it was given you to be USED, and not obscured. What teaches
you you cannot separate DENIES the ego. Let truth decide if you be
different or the same, and teach you which IS true.

