---
title: May 9, 2015  
ref: T19.7 Pleasure and Pain (*) 
---

Good evening.  And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

We are currently reading about the Obstacles to Peace.  And so it’s well
to keep in mind that peace is the focus.  Peace is the subject.  And we
are addressing the things that are obstacles to it.

As you read and hear discussion about the body, and this and that and
the other thing, it’s possible to become preoccupied with those subjects
and forget that we’re talking about them in the context of abandoning
them because peace is where the attention needs to be.

Peace, you could say, is the road Home.

Now, right now, we’re discussing the second Obstacle to Peace, which is,
The Belief the Body is Valuable for What it Offers.

Now it’s very important to realize that it does not say that the second
obstacle to peace is the body.  No.  It says, “the belief the body is
valuable for what it offers.”  You will not find me letting up on this
topic.  I will not let the belief continue that says that the body is
not real.  

You know what?  Let’s get real simple here.  And the simplest way to
look at this as the starting point is, that the body can be used for two
purposes:  It can either be used for defense or embrace.  If it is used
for defense, it is being used by a mentality that has separated itself
from its Infinite Source and is no longer conscious of its holiness—it’s
divinity.

And so life is a struggle and the best way to meet those struggles is
through the use of a body.  And so the body becomes a defense
mechanism—a way to secure some modicum of peace, a way to secure a
certain sense of safety, a way to somehow manage to demonstrate
self-responsibility that will earn respect and so on.

Mind you, all of these uses that the body is put to are forms of defense
and they keep you from accessing your peace.  They keep you off of the
road Home.  It’s important to remember.

Now, you can say that the body can be used for embrace as a means of
defense—as a means of control.  And indeed it can, but that’s not what
I’m speaking of.  The body can be used for defense by a misguided mind
or it can be used for embrace by that mind which has abandoned its
independence, joined with the Father, asked of the Holy Spirit or me,
what is the truth here?  And then in harmony with the response given,
the body is used to embrace, not for control, but as acknowledgement of
the holiness of the one being embraced.  

And this heals.  This is the proper purposeful use of the body.

Now continuing from where we left off last week.  It says:

Why should the body be anything to you?

Now I could have read it, [soberly] “why should the body be anything to
you?”  But it’s very easy to read it in a flippant way, “why should the
body be anything to you?”  And it’s important for the answer not to be a
flippant answer like, “well nothing! It isn’t supposed to mean anything
to you because it’s an illusion!”  Now that’s a flippant answer.

Why should the body be anything to you?

Because it’s the visibility and tangibility of your divine individuality
and there is absolutely nothing material about it.  Everything about it
is Spirit.  Its substance is Spirit.  Its nature is Love.  Its action is
Life.  And it’s none of these in contrast to an opposite.

Why should the body be anything to you?

Because it is the Movement of God expressed . . . identifiable,
experience-able.  But as a means of control and force, and somehow
succeeding at being an independent entity, it should mean nothing to
you.  And it doesn’t have those meanings when you have chosen for your
peace.

Certainly what it is made of . . .

. . . the body . . .

. . . is not precious.

Well, certainly it isn’t if you are an independent thinker providing the
definitions of everything.  That’s not the way you or anyone else is
defining it.  But the visibility and tangibility of your divine
individuality—the substance of it is precious because it is the divine
Presence of God expressing the Father’s Will, now . . . now . . . now .
. . now . . . brand new . . . now . . . now . . .

It . . .

. . . the body . . .

. . . transmits to you the feelings that you WANT.

Well, this is true.  And what is the “you” that we’re referring to?
Well, if it’s the independent you—the arrogant, self-willed determiner
of everything on your terms, then it transmits to you the feelings that
you in that frame of mind, want.  It will transmit to you the need for
defense and it will transmit to you that you can use it successfully for
defense.  You see?  

But if you have chosen for your peace, if you have abandoned your
independence and joined with the Holy Spirit, it will transmit to you
the Meanings which we will call, “feelings” that the Holy Spirit reveals
to you about the truth of everything you’re experiencing.  You see?

Like any communication medium, the body receives and sends the messages
that it is given.

Independent willful messages, send and receive, the same.  Joined
messages couched in, submerged in Love and Truth and Principle, will
return those.  It’s simple.

It has no feeling for them.

What?  The body.  No.  Of itself, it is nothing.  Because it doesn’t
exist of itself except in the imagination of some distressed Sons and
Daughters of God.

All of the feeling with which they are invested is given by the sender
and the receiver.

Well, if the sender is an independent distressed mentality, that
mentality is also going to be the receiver.  What is given, gets to be
kept.  You see?  

But when they are invested with clarity, groundedness, invulnerability,
Truth, then that is what is received.  So the question is, where are the
messages being sent from?  An independent ego or a holy Son or Daughter
of God who is happy, willing to have his mind filled with the Truth, by
That which Knows the Truth and shares It?  It’s that simple.

The ego and the Holy Spirit both recognize this, . .

. . . both recognize what? . . 

. . . that the sender and receiver are [one in] the SAME.

[repeats] The ego and the Holy Spirit both recognize this, and both also
recognize that here the sender and receiver are the SAME. The Holy
Spirit tells you this with joy.

The Holy Spirit reveals to you the Truth and when you receive it and are
infilled with it, it is an experience of joy.

Now, as I keep saying over and over, “the Holy Spirit is nothing more
than your right Mind.”  So when the Holy Spirit is turned to while you
still feel independent, and you truly, genuinely humbly ask, “What is
the truth?” and it is revealed to you, something else is revealed to
you: That the Holy Spirit is your Mind—is You.  And so the sender of the
message is the Holy Spirit and the receiver of the message is the You
that is not separated from the Holy Spirit any longer.  The sender and
the receiver are One.  And You are that One.

It is really important to let this idea quietly rest in your awareness,
so that, as I’ve said before, it becomes less strange, more familiar,
causing you to relax and be willing to more easily reach out in the holy
instant to ask, “What is the truth here?”

Now: 

Who would send messages of hatred and attack if he but understood he
sends them to HIMSELF?

Who would accuse, make guilty, and condemn himself?  True.  And that’s
the trickery of the way the ego works.  It doesn’t tell you that you are
misusing your mind by engaging in anger or jealousy or hatred or the
call for justice.  It doesn’t tell you that in this misuse of your mind,
you are debilitating yourself and removing yourself further from the
ease of Waking up—from the uninhibited willingness to ask for help and
to reach outside of your current tiny mindset.  No, it doesn’t tell you
that.

And so, you think that your anger is at someone else and you express it
towards them either out loud or silently in your mind.  This is what has
to be recognized.  When you are engaging in hate, jealousy, fear—any of
these things, which motivate you to take action to get justice or to
cause hurt in another so as to change their behavior so that it doesn’t
hurt you in the way that you’ve been imagining your being hurt—when you
recognize that, you can STOP! . . . because there is perspective and
clarity present that tells you the only one you’re hurting is yourself.

If you’re experiencing illness or dire circumstances in your life, you
may know that these are the evidences of the misuse of your mind which
debilitates your capacity to experience what?  PEACE, which is the road
Home.

The ego's messages are always sent AWAY from you, . .

. . . you know, your anger is always directed at someone else, and you
know what?  Even though you can tell me that many times your anger is
directed at yourself, if you’re honest about it, you will realize that
you are being hard on yourself so that pity can be extracted from
others.  It is still a means of a practicing manipulation and control
over what?  Not yourself!

Those out there.  

So, this kind of direct, honest, self-clarity is very important.  The
ego tells you that if you will look at it that way you will be proving
to yourself that you are guilty.  But the fact is, that it doesn’t
automatically arouse guilt.  What it automatically does without the help
of your ego, is provide you with a clarity of mind which allows you to
choose differently and make the new choice not to escape from a penalty
due you because you were guilty, but [which] allows you to become free
of the problem because you were simply mistaken in your perception, in
your belief and in your commitment to your belief.

Really, really important!

The ego's messages are always sent AWAY from you, in the . . . 

. . . what? . .

. . . belief that for your message of attack and guilt will someone
other than yourself suffer. And even if you suffer, yet someone else
will suffer more. 

You see?  

The great deceiver . . . 

. . . the ego—which really means the mentality which has chosen to try
to be independent of its Source.

The great deceiver recognizes that this is not so, but as the "enemy" of
peace, it urges you to send out all your messages of hate and free
YOURSELF . . . 

. . . you know, [chuckling] be rid of them!  Dump it!  Dump it out there
on him, on her, on this country, on that country.  You see?  And that is
going to relieve you.  Man-o-man, you have kept that bottled up for so
long.  Dump it!  Dump it!  Get rid of it!  

Dump it out there on him or her and then try to convince him or her that
they really are responsible for your distress, not you engaged in a
misuse of your mind that is keeping you from consciously choosing for
your peace and, we’ll say, changing horses in midstream, jumping the
track from finiteness to infinity.

And to convince you this is possible, it . . . 

. . . the ego . . .

. . . bids the body search for pain in attack upon another, . . 

. . . make them suffer!  Only then will you have justice.  Only then
will you feel good . . . and, in fact, right now while you’re extracting
justice and creating pain this is pleasurable.  In fact, it continues
here:

. . . calling it pleasure and offering it to you as freedom FROM attack.

Or as part of that is, “Get him before he gets you!”  That makes you
free of attack from him.  But it’s all part of the complex mishmash of
ignorance that arises out of the fact that initially you have abandoned
your peace.  And the answer isn’t in the complexities of the details of
the problem.  The answer lies in the making of a new choice for your
peace.  And that’s the whole point of this part of the Course.

Hear not its madness, . . 

. . . the ego’s madness.  Hear not the madness of a frame of mind that’s
distorted because it’s constantly having to defy the Father’s
Perspective That is instilled in him in order to have the “luxury,”
we’ll say, of an independent novel experience.  And the stress of it
hurts.  The stress of it cannot be escaped until the attempt to be
independent stops.

Hear not its madness, and believe not the impossible is true. Forget not
that the ego . . .

. . . again, this distressed frame of mind . . . 

. . . has dedicated the body to the goal of sin, . .

Ooh . . . it has dedicated the body to the goal of sin!  Well, to the
goal of missing the mark it has dedicated the body to be used as a
defense mechanism, as a place of physical force which can coerce and
alter human experience, while keeping that one’s holiness outside of his
range of awareness.  The denial of one’s Source causes one to miss the
mark, to do what doesn’t work and persist in it with commitment.  That
is the meaning of sin.  

And so, the ego has dedicated the body to the goal of successfully
keeping you unconscious of your holiness . . .

. . . and places in it all its faith that this can be accomplished. 

And man, oh man!  Everyone with great commitment continues to go through
each day seeing themselves as a body—whether it’s real or not in their
assessment—and attempting to overcome the incessant distractions.  And
it does it with commitment because it really believes that solution lies
there.  

All that I’m saying is, that everyone has forgotten their holiness.
Everyone has forgotten who their Father is, and that there is no such
thing as private independence.  Being is, you might say, a “joint
venture”—you acknowledging your Father.  You participating with your
Father in the Movement of Creation by acknowledging Him in It and
experiencing Him in It.  This is the simple shift that will precipitate
Awakening.

Its sad disciples . . . 

. . . the ego’s . . . 

. . . sad disciples chant the body's praise continually, in solemn
celebration of the ego's rule. Not one but must believe that yielding to
the attraction of guilt is the ESCAPE from pain. 

Which is what we’ve just been talking about.

Not one but must regard the body . . .

. . . what? . . 

. . . as himself, without which he would die, and yet within which is
his death equally inevitable.

This is the big problem.  It’s the hooker.  When the choice for
independence from the Father was made, one found himself preoccupied
with the visibility and tangibility of his individuality because it
couldn’t go anywhere, having been created by the Father . . . and is
continuing to be created by the Father.  

The preoccupation with the body as something other than the declaration
of the Son of God’s holiness, causes it to become a means of defense
which must be brought into play because, as you know, divorced from the
Father, fear and guilt automatically came in like gangbusters, full
force, to be coped with.

It is not given to the ego's disciples . . .

. . . to those who believe their very own distorted perceptions.

It is not given to the ego's disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death. 

Wow, heavy duty!  Well, death isn’t the only thing that they’ve
dedicated themselves to, they’ve dedicated themselves to sin and
sickness.  They’ve dedicated themselves to be unconscious of the Truth.

And so you see—if you look at history—the constant carrying out of
birth, sin, sickness and death, with only a few variations where
ascension or translation occurred.  And everyone believes the history.
Everyone awaits death.  “Oh, it’s inevitable!”  And you know what?  This
mindset, that death is inevitable gets carried along with each of you as
you move into a new realm, we’ll say, of understanding.  

And so you have here A Course in Miracles, which does not support that
belief, but because you “know” that death is inevitable you are reading
it into what the Course is saying.  And you do not hesitate to embrace
the idea that the body is an illusion and that therefore you will drop
it.  You missed the point that what you drop is the misperception of the
visibility and tangibility of your divine individuality which is not
material and is not subject to sin, disease and death.  You see?  

And that is why I’m harping on it, because we’re having to break the
habit of thought so that you can embrace, for lack of better words, a
new expectation.  Again:

It is not given to the ego's disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death. Freedom is offered them, . . 

I’m offering it.  The Holy Spirit offers it.  The Father offers it.  It
is constantly insinuated into your awareness in one way or another.  But
for the most part it is overridden because you “know” how things really
work.  And that’s where your faith and commitment lie.  Again:  

It is not given to the ego's disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death. Freedom is offered them, but they have
not accepted it, and what is offered must also be received, to be truly
given. 

One always accompanies the other in order for it to be actual—in order
for it to be actualized.

For the Holy Spirit, too, is a communication medium, receiving from the
Father and offering His messages unto the Son. 

You, you holy Sons and Daughters of God.

Now, think about this:  if indeed the Holy Spirit is nothing more than
your right Mind, then when you abandon completely your independence and
the Holy Spirit, we’ll say, is rejoined with you or you are rejoined
with It without any sense of separation, then you will be the . . .

. . . communication medium, receiving from the Father and offering His
messages unto the Son. 

In other words, embracing them, incorporating them, not denying them.

Like the ego, the Holy Spirit is both the sender and the receiver. 

It’s the singularity.  And this is what you bring into your experience
every time you practice the holy instant, every time you engage in the
two-step, humbly, genuinely.

For what is sent through Him RETURNS to Him, . .

. . . what is sent through you returns to you . . .

. . . seeking itself along the way, and finding what it seeks.  So does
the ego find the death IT seeks, returning it to YOU.

That’s the way it seems to work until peace is more important to you,
until your willingness to embrace yourself as the holy Son or Daughter
of God is embraced by you.

The second Obstacle To Peace:  The Belief the Body is Valuable for What
it Offers is really an easy thing to abandon, once you begin to see it.
You can see it leads nowhere.  And what you’re experiencing is a
distortion and not real and that the choice for peace—the abandonment of
the belief that the body is valuable for what it offers—is the answer
and it is an answer that is available to you now . . . now . . . now.  

Your peace is ever present.  It is the very underlying nature of your
Being.  It is and always has been ever present.  It is available to you
because it is functioning in you, as you at this moment.  And so, the
little willingness that the Course speaks about is really all it takes.
Dare to be adventurous, let’s say, and abandon defense.  Not stupidly:
Abandon defense by making a different choice, turning to the Holy Spirit
in the holy instant desiring to know what the truth is here, and then
listening for the inevitable Answer.  

I will tell you, you will be able to tell how genuine your desire is
when you discover how quickly you’re willing to abandon the listening.  

You may not be familiar with being in this way, but the only way you
will become familiar with it—at ease with it—will be through
persistence. 

Now, be with this.  Let it sink in.  Be attentive to these ideas and let
new perspective in—new perspective from That which is nothing more than
your right Mind—the Holy Spirit.  Then you’ll be ready to deal with the
next obstacle which we will discuss next time.

I love you very much.

Chapter 19 – Section:  PLEASURE AND PAIN Sparkly Book – p.467, Last Par.
/ JCIM – p.195, 3rd Par. from bottom / CIMS – p.393, Par. 73 Chapter 19
– Section:  THE ATTRACTION OF PAIN First Edition  –  p. 387, 2nd Full
Par. /  Second Edition – p.415, Par. 14

