---
title: May 17, 2015
ref: T19.8 Obstacles to Peace; The Attraction of Death (*)
---

Good evening. And welcome to everyone who’s joining us on the Internet.

We are reading about the Obstacles to Peace. And as I mentioned last
week, with all of the specific details that are covered, it may sound
like the subject is everything other than peace. But the fact is, all
of these relate to peace as being the primary state of Being through
which and in which one Awakens—through which and in which the miracle
occurs.

Now, as you will remember, the first obstacle was The Desire to Get Rid
of It—meaning peace. The second obstacle was The Belief the Body is
Valuable for What It Offers. And tonight we’re beginning with the third
obstacle:

The Attraction of Death1

Now, there are four obstacles and they are presented in the order in
which they are most easily undone. And that’s the point! That’s the
reason for considering each of them—not so that you might be impressed
with how horrible and insurmountable the obstacles are, but rather, that
they are to be undone and how to undo them so that . . . what? Peace
returns as the foundation and the superstructure of your conscious
experience of Being.

Now I’m going to back up to the beginning of the last paragraph we read
last week. It begins:

It is not given to the ego’s disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death.

Wow . . . it continues:

Freedom is offered them, but they have not accepted it, and what is
offered must also be received, to be truly given. For the Holy Spirit,
too, is a communication medium, receiving from the Father and offering
His messages unto the Son. Like the ego, the Holy Spirit is both the
sender and the receiver. For what is sent through Him RETURNS to Him,
seeking itself along the way, and finding what it seeks. So does the
ego find the death IT seeks, returning it to YOU.

Now it’s important, when you’re reading the Course, not to gloss quickly
over the things hard to understand, or the things you don’t really want
to consider, and get on to the more positive things.

And so, when this paragraph starts out by saying . . . 

It is not given to the ego’s disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death, . .

. . . it’s like, “[Groan] . . . that’s about all the further I want to
go into that!” And then what the next sentence says:

Freedom is offered them, but they have not accepted it, . . 

“Wow! Freedom has been offered! I’m going to glom onto that. I’m going
to reach for that. I’m going to give my attention to that, and I’m
going to feel better than I was feeling when I read: 
 
It is not given to the ego’s disciples to realize that they have
dedicated THEMSELVES to death, . .

“I’m not going to dwell on that.”

Well, you’re going to have to dwell on it. Because understanding what
it means is essential to your being able to do . . . what? Undo it.
Release it. Become unbound by it!

So, pretty heavy-handed, I would say: The ego’s disciples . . . 

. . . have dedicated THEMSELVES to death.

Well, let’s be grounded . . . let’s be practical . . . let’s be sober. 

Who of you has absolute confidence that you will not die? How many of
you have confidence that you will not die? 

How many of you feel, right now, that you are being, and it will be
uninterrupted by death—no variation will occur [as] it has with almost
everyone else except for the handful who have ascended or translated? 

If you know that you’re going to die, then you are one of the ego’s
disciples who is dedicated to death!

What’s the saying? “The only sure thing is death and taxes.”

So, you know what? You’re already disciples of the ego. And you are
already dedicated to death because you’re absolutely sure that it’s
going to happen to you. Of course, there will be another lifetime where
you will return to Heaven and your life will not have ended. And so,
therefore, you don’t mind being absolutely sure that you’re going to die
out of this experience.

Man, that’s dedication! That’s commitment! You are bound with a
certainty—the certainty of your inner decision about it. So you’re
already in it. And you have just found a way to describe it so that
it’s not as distressing as it might otherwise be. You see?

One way or another it’s a certainty, and you have arrived at a certain
amount of peace about it. And that peace is false. And that peace
disallows for correction to occur. It disallows for this obstacle to
peace to be destroyed. And yet that’s the call.

You are the holy Sons and Daughters of God, who, somewhere along the
line, decided with another to pay more attention to your own thoughts
than the Thoughts of God. And so you forgot who you were and you forgot
your function.

And now here you are living in an experience that is full of sin,
sickness and death. And you think it’s normal. You think it’s the way
God set it up. And, as I’ve said, you’ve built a story around it—many
stories around it—that make it a more comfortable experience.

This Course is not here to make you comfortable in an illusion until the
illusion is over, because the illusion won’t be over until you abandon
it! And you won’t abandon it until you look squarely at it and see how
you are engaging with it. You see?

So don’t be afraid to look soberly at it. 

“Well,” someone says, “how come nobody else who is teaching the Course
is saying this? How come everyone else who studies the Course believes
that death is inevitable?” It doesn’t really matter. What matters is
that I am teaching that it is not inevitable and I am bringing out the
ways in which the Course intends to undo the obstacle. Why? So that
you shall never see death! 

“He that believeth on me shall never see death!”2

That’s my declaration. That’s my promise. That’s the simple truth.
Death is to be undone. And the Course has no different purpose from
that. If death is not inevitable, then it means that sickness that
leads to death is not inevitable. And it means that sin—the attempt to
do something that can’t be done with commitment—that is to be undone as
well.

That means what? A lot of things. It means ever-present health. It
means no signs of aging. More than that, as you engage in the holy
instant and lean into the Father’s Perspective by asking of the Holy
Spirit, “What is the truth here?” you set into motion your capacity to
see the truth. And by that I mean, in the transformation of your
awareness as it is infilled with the inspired truth that the Holy Spirit
provides, you will find what you would call physical evidence of
correction of all that wasn’t real, all that were misperceptions—like
aging. 

And so you would say you’re experiencing “youthing”—the return of better
symmetry, more perfect form in outline and color. You see?

You should be going through your day, every day, with an expectation of
eternal Life showing up in practical language of perception, now . . .
and not just reading the Course and glossing over the hard parts and
getting to the sweet and beautiful parts that allow you some peace and
comfort without correcting a darn thing! You see?

The word, “correction” means something changes. A call for correction
is a call for a change. Where? Right in the middle of your experience.
We could call it, “the human experience.” But actually, it’s right in
the middle of your divine experience and revealing, uncovering, the
divinity of it more clearly to you in your conscious awareness. This is
what it’s about!

Now, beginning in this new sub-heading (The Attraction of Death):

To you, in whose special relationship the Holy Spirit entered, . . 

. . . meaning, when in your relationship with your fellowman, you turned
to the Holy Spirit to gather the facts instead of your memory and your
mutual agreements, . . 

To you, in whose special relationship the Holy Spirit entered, . . 

. . . because you invited Him . . .

. . . it is given to release and be released from the dedication to
death.

The holy instant genuinely and humbly practiced, is the threshold into
the conscious experience of eternal Life—yours, NOW . . . not after you
pass on.

For it was offered you, and you ACCEPTED.

And that’s the key. You ACCEPTED. The moment you turn to the Holy
Spirit or the Father, or your Guide, or me, and you ask to know the
truth, the truth will be provided if your desire is humble and genuine.
And because . . .

. . . it was offered you, and you ACCEPTED [it] . . .

. . . the miracle occurs. And the miracle embraces you and your Brother
or Sister always. It is never private—exclusively yours. NEVER! 

Yet, . .

. . . in spite of the fact that . . .

it’s been given and received, you must learn still more about this
strange devotion, for it contains the third of the obstacles which peace
must flow across.

Notice that. Peace flows across these obstacles like water. It doesn’t
fight with them, it doesn’t engage with them. It floats over them.

No-one can die unless he chooses death.

Now mind you, I know! You say you’re not choosing death. You’re
choosing life every day. You go around with a positive attitude every
day. You engage in good deeds every day. You engage in helping.
You’re not choosing death. If you’re a teenager, if you’re in your
twenties, if you’re in your thirties, the feeling is that the sky is the
limit and nothing holds you back. You’re not afraid of death. 

Nevertheless, you went to your grandmother’s funeral a few months ago.
You’ve noticed the obituaries. You watch the news. You see that people
are dying. It isn’t occupying your mind—you have a very positive
attitude. But nevertheless, you have embodied, we’ll say, the very
definite belief that your life is a life span with a beginning and an
end. You believe that. You’re just not concerned about it yet.

Your belief in it though, is your devotion to it.

So, when it says . . .

No-one can die unless he chooses death . . .

. . . it means exactly that. And here’s the key: If you are not
choosing to engage in the holy instant, if you are not choosing to
engage in the two-step and to silence your thinking, and genuinely
desire to know the truth of Something beyond your best capacities to
think . . . if you’re not doing that, you are caught. You are devoted
to death and death will happen because you’re choosing it.

There’s only one way to un-choose it, and that is to abandon the
independence. Abandon your “right” to think for yourself, and partner
once again with the Holy Spirit, with the Father, with your Guide.
Partner—consciously do everything in the awareness that you are not
alone. Partner by inquiring to know the more of what God is Being right
there in your experience, than you’re presently experiencing. You see?
That’s the only way to un-choose for death. 

What SEEMS to be the fear of death is really its ATTRACTION.

Not really so hard to grasp the meaning of. 

You see, because you believe that life has a beginning and an end, and
you’re devoted to that, and you’re devoted to death, you are
simultaneously voting for it and being afraid of it. This is where a
sober look is really important.

Everyone who insists upon being an independent thinker—a body with a
brain that developed through evolutionary processes in a material
world—that entity is a concept. It is an interpretation placed upon the
holy Son or Daughter of God and given preference to What lies underneath
it. 

So, you’re put in this experience of a bind where you are confident
there will be death and you are afraid of it at the same time. You are
attracted to death because you are attracted to being in a way that is
pure illusion. You are attracted to function as an independent physical
entity which you are not. But as long as you are unwilling to look any
further than that, you will be bound to the experience of death.

Guilt, too, is feared and fearful. Yet it could have no hold at all
except on those who are attracted to it and seek it out.

Well see, I know! Nobody seeks it out. Nobody thinks they do. But the
fact is that the moment you, as I’ve said before, got a divorce from
your Father, two things immediately came into play that you weren’t
expecting: fear and guilt. And so, as long as you are seeking to be
independent, you are attracted to and seek the experience of fear and
guilt. 

You don’t think of it that way because you’re thinking about the fun and
the exhilaration and the hit you will get from being independently
intelligent, creative, and making someone out of yourself. That’s what
you’re thinking about—something that makes utterly no sense at all to a
holy Son or Daughter of God who hasn’t said, “Father, I’d rather do it
my way. I’d rather see things my way.” You see?

And so it is with death. Made by the ego, its dark shadow falls across
all living things, because the ego is the "enemy" of life.

God is Life. Life is what God is. Life is an Absolute. Life is
unlimited because there is nothing present to be unlike it. But when
someone says, “I’d rather make up the rules,” “I’d rather define what
everything is,” “I’d rather make up the definition,” then you are
separating yourself from Life. You are choosing to be different from
your Source. And different means, un-like.  The only way to be un-like
Life is to be that which posits and demonstrates and manifests death.
That’s the bottom line. 

It doesn’t matter that it’s an illusion. As long as one is engaged in
an illusory sense of self, the illusion is going to seem quite real, and
it is an unworthy experience for a holy Son or Daughter of God. It is
not the Birthright of a holy Son or Daughter of God—You. Therefore,
correction is called for: the need to see death as an obstacle to
peace, your peace—the place in you in which miracles occur, in which
Awakening occurs.  

The act of independence, the cherishing of independence and the
commitment to it is a commitment against All that Truly Is.

The thinking—the mindsets engaged in that—are what the word “ego” means.
You are not an ego, but you can imaginatively think that you are
independent and that you can make up the meanings of everything. And
what happens is, you become a disciple of a “way” of thinking—of a
perspective. You see? Not an actuality. So correction is called for.
The obstacle is to be undone. 

Identifying with that which is the enemy of Life is the inevitable next
step. 

Death:   Made by the ego, its dark shadow falls across all living
things, . .

. . . at least as far as you can see, looking through the lens of
independence that you’re looking through, . .

. . . because the ego is the "enemy" of life.

And yet a shadow cannot kill. 

In other words, that which has no substance, but just an appearance
cannot kill. It cannot do anything.

What is a shadow to the living? 

What is a misperception to a holy Son or Daughter of God?

They but walk past and it is gone. But what of those whose dedication it
is NOT to live; . .

I know! Nobody has a dedication not to live. But now you know that if
you’re operating independently, you are in the realm of what is not
real, where death is inevitable because the state of mind is devoted to
the opposite of what is Real. It’s devoted to the opposite of Life,
Truth and Love, therefore it’s opposing Life. It’s affirming and
constantly confirming death.

But what of those whose dedication it is NOT to live; the black-draped
"sinners," the ego's mournful chorus, plodding so heavily away from
life, dragging their chains and marching in the slow procession which
honors their grim master, lord of death? 

Well, gee whiz, who in the hell are these individuals that this is
talking about? My goodness! Could it be you? Could it be the one who
isn’t expecting miracles? Could it be the one who doesn’t think death
can be avoided, or that death isn’t even real and therefore nothing
associated with it is real either?

You all have mutual agreements and you stand together solidly. That’s
the “mournful chorus.” “Oh, Joe has this terminal illness. He only has
six months to live. Well, we can pray for him to have maximum comfort
between now and then. We can ask the Holy Spirit to help him.” 

[Chuckling] But I’m not hearing anybody say, “Hey, let’s raise the
dead,” or “let’s undo the death process, and let’s expect to see it here
and now!” 

Now that’s the correction of the attraction to death and that’s the
correction of death. And here and now is when to be engaging in that
correction . . . by what? . . abandoning your best judgments and
everyone else’s best judgments and shutting up and saying, “Father,” or
“Holy Spirit, what is the living truth here? What is the truth that
eradicates the obstacle?”

Touch any one of them . . .

. . . anyone with a “mournful chorus” . . .

 . . . with the gentle hands of forgiveness, and watch the chains fall
away, along with yours. 

That’s always the way it works: “what you give, you get to keep,” what
you extend, you end up embodying. The question is: where is the gift
coming from? What’s the source of the gift you’re giving . . . the ego
or the Holy Spirit—your deranged mind that you seem to have
imaginatively created, or that which is nothing but your right Mind, the
Holy Spirit?

. . . watch the chains fall away, along with yours.

NOW!

See him throw aside the black robe he was wearing to his funeral, and
hear him laugh at death. 

You see? This is what the destruction of this obstacle to peace is
going to look like here and now.

The sentence sin would lay upon him he can escape through your
forgiveness.

(Whew!) Why, because you’re special? No. But because your forgiveness
is you being willing to abandon the mutual agreement about death and
seeking for an answer beyond your best judgment and your best education
with what seems to you to be perfectly obvious. And then extending the
insight, the inspiration, the experience of truth about him or her that
infills you . . . you see? The undoing of the obstacle here and now.

This is no arrogance. It is the Will of God. What is impossible to you
who chose His Will as yours? What is death to you?

You see? Realization: the transformation of your conscious awareness
of life and of the infinite manifestation of God transforms the material
world. The Bible speaks of this as the scales falling from your eyes.3
The scales falling from your eyes cause you to seem to see a world that
was transformed, but what it has always divinely been has simply
registered with you in your defenselessness, in the absence of your
willfulness.

YOUR dedication . . .

. . . if you’ve accepted the will of God.

YOUR dedication is not to death, nor to its master. When you accepted
the Holy Spirit's purpose in place of the ego's, you renounced death, .
.

. . . I’m going to bring that into the present tense:

When you [accept] the Holy Spirit's purpose in place of the ego's, you
[renounce] death.

It couldn’t be any clearer than that. It also couldn’t be any more
radical than that. But the Course is about “radical.” The Course is
about undoing the obstacles to peace and therefore undoing those things
that stand in the way of your Awakening.

When you accepted the Holy Spirit's purpose in place of the ego's, you
renounced death, exchanging it for life. We know that an idea leaves not
its source. And death is the result of the thought we call the ego, as
surely as life is the result of the Thought of God.

Wow! 

A sub-heading entitled:

THE INCORRUPTIBLE BODY 

Strange words if one thinks that the Course is teaching that the body is
an illusion: 

THE INCORRUPTIBLE BODY 

Continuing:

From the ego came sin and guilt and death, in opposition to life and
innocence, and to the Will of God Himself. 

You see? That’s why it’s a dedication to death. Again, nobody thinks
of it quite that way because there is such pleasure taken and such an
ethic of being able to take credit for being independently creative.
But all the time one is engaged in independence, one is denying who he
is and what his function is.

Where can such opposition lie but in the sick minds of the insane,
dedicated to madness and set against the peace of Heaven. 

Again, rather strong language, because that’s the last thing you would
describe yourself as. You wouldn’t use those words relative to you.
But if you don’t realize that you have adopted a way of interpreting
Creation and Life that is inconsistent with what It truly divinely is,
then you are indulging in a mind that is sick, insane, dedicated to
madness and set against the Peace of Heaven. 

Don’t shy away from that, because the clarity of it makes it possible
for you to, with absolute clarity, choose differently, knowing why you
are choosing differently.

One thing is sure; God, Who created neither sin nor death, wills not
that you be bound by them. He knows of neither sin nor its results. 

[Chuckling] Those have all been manufactured by a creative, disturbed,
disconnected mind.

The shrouded figures in the funeral procession march not in honor of
their Creator, . .

. . . meaning God . . .
 
. . . Whose Will it is they live. They are not following It; they are
OPPOSING It.

And what is the black-draped body they would bury? A body which THEY
dedicated to death, a symbol of corruption, a sacrifice to sin, offered
to sin to feed upon and keep itself alive; a thing condemned, damned by
its maker, and lamented by every mourner who looks upon it as himself. 

[Sighs] You know what? It’s simple. If you are choosing not to look
at everything through the Father’s eyes, by letting that Mind be in you
which was also in Christ Jesus4—which was the Father’s Mind—then there
is nothing positive that can be said about it. And these words which I
just read:

. . . a thing condemned, damned by its maker, . . 

. . . blah, blah, blah . . . 

. . . those are not too strong, and that’s not the entire list. But
understand that there is no way for there to be any positive adjective
applied—not until you are willing to engage in the two-step, the holy
instant, and abandon your confidence in your best private thinking and
rejoin with your Source.

You know, you can listen to this and you can dare to say, “Wow, I must
be all screwed up! But, I do see that if I exist at all, I have to be
the manifestation of a Source—an infinite Source, one that is not
flawed. And I’m willing to abandon my confidence in all of what must be
my screwed up thinking. I’m willing to abandon it and reach beyond it
because, as a matter of fact, I do agree that everyone is going to die
and that means me too. And if for some strange reason, death is an
obstacle to peace that is to be undone, then I’m going to not get
excited and upset and depressed because I’m so confused. And I am going
to more consistently engage in the holy instant. I am going to engage
in That which, I am told, undoes the obstacles to peace.”

Continuing: 

[Raj did not read these next two sentences: You who believe you have
condemned the Son of God to this ARE arrogant. But you who would release
him are but honoring the Will of his Creator. ]

The arrogance of sin, the pride of guilt, the sepulchre of separation,
all are part of your unrecognized dedication to death. The glitter of
guilt you laid upon the body would kill it. For what the ego . . .

. . . listen to this:

For what the ego loves it kills for its obedience. 

You see, the threat of death is what keeps you cemented to the confused
outlook defined by the word “ego.”

For what the ego loves it kills for its obedience. 

But listen to this:

But what obeys it not it CANNOT kill.

Well, how do you not obey the ego? You abandon it! As I’ve said many
times before: the only thing the ego cannot defend itself against, is
disregard. How do you disregard it? Yep, the two-step, the practice of
the holy instant.

You have another dedication . . .

[Chuckling] . . . one besides the dedication to the ego and death.

You have another dedication which would keep the body incorruptible and
perfect as long as it is useful for your holy purpose. 

Wow! Is that the way you would describe an illusion? Is that the way
you would describe something that is going to disappear?

You have another dedication which would keep the body incorruptible and
perfect as long as it is useful for your holy purpose. 

That simply means forever, unless you choose to abandon your holy
purpose and attempt once again to be an arrogant ego.

[Raj reads these two sentences a little farther down: The body no more
dies than it can feel. It does NOTHING. ]

Of itself, . . 

. . . those are the key words.

Of itself, . .

. . . referring to the body . . .

. . . it is neither corruptible nor incorruptible. 

That’s because it doesn’t exist of itself.

Of itself, it is neither corruptible nor incorruptible. It IS nothing.
It is the result of a tiny, mad idea of corruption which can be
CORRECTED. 

But now, I’m going to get real picky here. I’m going to change the
wording, because this expresses the real meaning here:

The body no more dies than it can feel. It does NOTHING. Of itself, it
is neither corruptible nor incorruptible. [Of itself,] it IS nothing.
[Of itself,] it is the result of a tiny, mad idea of corruption which
can be CORRECTED. 

The words “of itself,” need to begin all three of those sentences. So
you can see, it is not saying that the body is nothing.

Of itself, it is neither corruptible nor incorruptible. [Of itself,] it
IS nothing.

Of course, “of itself.”

 [Of itself,] it is the result of a tiny, mad idea of corruption which .
. .

. . . what?

. . . can be CORRECTED.

Not gotten rid of! The body is not there to be gotten rid of, but the
misperception is to be corrected. That’s what all of this is about:
The undoing of the obstacle to peace, called the Attraction of Death.

For God has answered this insane idea with His Own, an answer which left
Him not, and therefore brings the Creator to the awareness of every mind
which heard His answer and ACCEPTED it.

Now we’ve paid attention in a sober way to the idea of the attraction of
death. And I have elaborated on it to provide more meaning. Listen to
this. 

Continuing . . .

You who are dedicated to the incorruptible have been given, through your
acceptance, the power to RELEASE from corruption. 

You see? The undoing of the obstacle.

What better way to teach the first and fundamental principle in a course
on miracles than by showing you the one which seems to be the hardest
can be accomplished first? The body can but serve your purpose. As you
look upon it, so will it seem to be. 

Doesn’t say, “so will it seem to appear and disappear.”

As you look upon it, so will it seem to be. 

And the question is: With what are you going to look upon it? That’s
all. One secures the seeming interminable on-goingness of birth and
death and the other undoes it, giving rise to or revealing eternal Life
now . . . now . . . now.

I love you very much. And I look forward to being with you next time.

1Chapter 19 – Section: THE ATTRACTION OF DEATH Sparkly Book – p. 468
/  JCIM – p.196  /  CIMS – p. 394 First Edition – p. 388  /
Second Edition – p. 416 2John 11:25 3Acts 9:18 4Phillipians 2:5

